>> Woodruff: TALKS TODAY BETWEEN
THE WHITE HOUSE AND REPUBLICANS
SHOWED SMALL SIGNS OF PROGRESS.
MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS
ARE HERE TO ANALYZE EFFORTS TO
END THE SHUTDOWN AND AVOID A
GOVERNMENT DEFAULT.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
GWEN IFILL IS OFF.
ALSO AHEAD ON THE PROGRAM, THIS
YEAR'S NOBEL EACEP PRIZE WENT TO
A LITTLE-KNOWN CHEMICAL WEAPONS
WATCHDOG HARD AT WORK
ELIMINATING SYRIA'S STOCKPILES.
AND MARGARET WARNER SITS DOWN
WITH MALALA YOUSAFZAI-- THE 16-
YEAR-OLD PAKISTANI SHOT BY THE
TALIBAN ON HER WAY TO SCHOOL,
NOW AN INTERNATIONAL VOICE FOR
EDUCATION.
>> GOD HAS GIVEN ME THIS NEW
LIFE FOR THE CAUSE OF EDUCATION,
AND I BELIEVE THAT EVEN DEATH IS
SUPPORTING THE CAUSE OF
EDUCATION.
EVEN DEAD DID NOT WANT TO KILL
ME SO HOW CANHE T TALIBAN?
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE JUST SOME
OF THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S "PBS NEWSHOUR."
>> Woodruff: OUR LEAD STORY
TONIGHT:
THE TRUCE TALKS IN WASHINGTON'S
WAR OVER SPENDING WENT INTO THE
WEEKEND WITH MUCH OF THE
GOVERNMENT STILL CLOSED.
HOUSE AND SENATE REPUBLICANS
BARGAINED SEPARATELY WITH
PRESIDENT OBAMA ON WAYS TO RAISE
THE DEBT CEILING AND END THE
SHUTDOWN.
"NEWSHOUR" CONGRESSIONAL
CORRESPONDENT KWAME HOLMAN
HAS OUR REPORT.
>> Reporter: AFTER NEARLY TWO
HOURS AT THE WHITE HOUSE, SENATE
REPUBLICANS RETURNED TO THE
CAPITOL THIS AFTERNOON WITH A
PLEDGE TO WORK ON A BIPARTISAN
PLAN.
A FRAMEWORK-- PUT FORWARD BY
MAINE REPUBLICAN SUSAN COLLINS--
WOULD INCLUDE A SHORT-TERM DEBT
LIMIT INCREASE AND FUNDING TO
REOPEN THE GOVERNMENT.
IT WOULD ALSO REPEAL THE TAX ON
MEDICAL DEVICES, USED TO HELP
FINANCE THE HEALTH CARE LAW.
AND, IT WOULD GIVE FEDERAL
AGENCIES MORE FLEXIBILITY TO
MANAGE MANDATORY SPENDING CUTS.
COLLINS SAID PRESIDENT OBAMA
LISTENED AND SEEMED RECEPTIVE.
>> THE PRESIDENT LISTENED
CAREFULLY.
HE SAID THAT SOME OF THE
ELEMENTS WERE ISSUES WE COULD
WORK ON, BUT HE CERTAINLY DID
NOT ENDORSE THEM.
THERE WERE MANY CONVERSATIONS ON
THE LONG-TERM DEBT PROBLEM.
MANY MEMBERS EXPRESSED CONCERN
ABOUT RAISING THE DEBT LIMIT
WITHOUT A SPECIFIC PLAN TO DEAL
WITH OUR $17 TRILLION NATIONAL
DEBT.
>> Reporter: MEANWHILE, HOUSE
REPUBLICANS UPDATED THEIR
PROPOSAL.
AIDES SAID IT TEMPORARILY LIFTS
THE DEBT CEILING, ENDS THE
SHUTDOWN AND REPLACES SOME OF
THE SPENDING CUTS WITH CURBS ON
BENEFIT PROGRAMS.
AT THE WHITE HOUSE, PRESS
SECRETARY JAY CARNEY SAID THE
PRESIDENT TELEPHONED HOUSE
SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER THIS
AFTERNOON AND WELCOMED HIS
CONSTRUCTIVE APPROACH.
BUT CARNEY SAID THE TIME FRAME
IS A PROBLEM.
>> YOU KNOW, A PROPOSAL THAT
PUTS A DEBT CEILING INCREASE AT
ONLY SIX WEEKS TIED TO BUDGET
NEGOTIATIONS WOULD PUT US RIGHT
BACK WHERE WE ARE TODAY IN JUST
SIX WEEKS, ON THE VERGE OF
THANKSGIVING AND OBVIOUSLY
IMPORTANT SHOPPING SEASON
LEADING UP TO THE HOLIDAYS.
>> Reporter: BACK AT THE
SIMILAR WARNING.
THERE WAS GREIG EVIDENCE
CONGRESSIONAL REPUBLICANS WERE
PAYING THE HEAVIER POLITICAL
PRICE AS THE LONG STALEMATE
DRAGS ON.
A "WALL STREET JOURNAL"/NBC NEWS
POLL FOUND 53% OF AMERICANS
BLAME REPUBLICANS FOR THE
SHUTDOWN, WHILE 31% FAULT THE
PRESIDENT.
OTHER SURVEYS HAD SIMILAR
FINDINGS.
ADDING TO THE PRESSURE TO ACT,
THE HEAD OF THE NATIONAL
TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD
DEBORAH HERSMAN TOLD A SENATE
HEARING THAT SHE'S HAD TO HALT
SAFETY INVESTIGATIONS.
>> IN ADDITION TO THE ACTIVITIES
THESE DELAYS SLOW OUR
DETERMINATION OF PROBABLE CAUSE
AND THE ISSUANCE OF SAFETY
RECOMMENDATIONS; ESSENTIALLY
DELAYING SAFETY TO THE AMERICAN
PUBLIC, RESULTING IN LOST LIVES
AND INJURIES.
>> Reporter: THERE ALSO WERE
SMALLER SIGNS OF THE SHUTDOWN'S
TOLL.
A SENATE LANDMARK-- THE OHIO
CLOCK-- STOPPED TICKING THIS
WEEK BECAUSE THE WORKERS WHO
WIND IT HAVE BEEN FURLOUGHED.
>>Wood ruff: IN OTHER NEWS, WALL
STREET RACKED UP A SECOND DAY OF
BIG GAINS, ON HOPES FOR A
SETTLEMENT IN WASHINGTON.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
ADDED 111 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
15,237.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 31 POINTS TO
CLOSE NEAR 3792.
FOR THE WEEK, THE DOW GAINED 1%
THE NASDAQ FELL ABOUT HALF A
PERCENT.
THE AGENCY WORKING TO DESTROY
CHEMICAL WEAPONS IN SYRIA WON
THE NOBEL PEACE PRIZE TODAY.
THE NORWEGIAN NOBEL COMMITTEE
HONORED THE ORGANIZATION FOR THE
PROHIBITION OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
IT HAD BEEN WIDELY SPECULATED
THE PRIZE MIGHT GO TO
MALALA YOUSAFZAI, THE PAKISTANI
GIRL SHOT BY THE TALIBAN FOR
ADVOCATING EDUCATION FOR GIRLS.
WE'LL HAVE MORE ON THE PEACE
PRIZE, RIGHT AFTER THE NEWS
SUMMARY.
HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH CHARGED TODAY
THAT REBELS IN SYRIA KILLED AT
LEAST 190 CIVILIANS AND
KIDNAPPED MORE THAN 200 OTHERS
IN ATTACKS ON AUGUST FOURTH.
IT HAPPENED DURING A REBEL
OFFENSIVE IN THE COASTAL
PROVINCE OF LATAKIA.
WITNESSES TOLD OF ENTIRE
FAMILIES BEING EXECUTED.
HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH SAYS ISLAMIST
GROUPS, INCLUDING TWO LINKED TO
AL-QAIDA, LED THE OFFENSIVE.
>> THE COORDINATED NATURE AND
ADVANCE PLANNING THAT WENT INTO
THIS OPERATION SHOWS THAT THIS
IS NOT JUST THE WORK OF SOME
ROGUE FIGHTERS WITHIN THESE
REBEL GROUPS, BUT RATHER THIS
WAS A PLANNED ATTACK AGAINST THE
CIVILIAN POPULATION.
FOR THAT REASON, WE DO BELIEVE
THE ABUSES MAY AMOUNT TO CRIMES
AGAINST HUMANITY.
THEY CERTAINLY AMOUNT TO WAR
CRIMES.
>> Woodruff: THE REBELS ARE
MAINLY SUNNI MUSLIMS.
THE VICTIMS OF THE ATTACK
BELONGED TO THE MINORITY ALAWITE
SECT, WHICH SUPPORTS PRESIDENT
BASHAR AL-ASSAD.
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
MADE AN UNANNOUNCED TRIP TO
AFGHANISTAN TODAY TO HELP REVIVE
SECURITY TALKS.
HE MET WITH PRESIDENT HAMID
KARZAI TO DISCUSS KEEPING SOME
U.S. TROOPS IN THE COUNTRY
BEYOND 2014.
TALKS HAVE STALLED OVER HOW TO
PRESERVE AFGHAN SOVEREIGNTY.
ALSO TODAY, AN AFGHAN OFFICIAL
SAID U.S. TROOPS HAVE CAPTURED A
SENIOR PAKISTANI TALIBAN
COMMANDER IN AFGHANISTAN.
A MASSIVE TROPICAL CYCLONE
BARRELED TOWARD EASTERN INDIA
TODAY.
THE POWERFUL STORM HAD GROWN SO
LARGE-- 1,000 MILES ACROSS-- IT
ALMOST FILLED THE BAY OF BENGAL.
THE STORM IS ALREADY WHIPPING UP
SEAS, AND COULD HAVE WINDS OF
135 MILES-AN-HOUR WHEN IT HITS
INDIA TOMORROW NIGHT.
TENS OF THOUSANDS OF RESIDENTS
ALONG THE COAST HAVE BEEN
ORDERED TO FLEE TO SAFETY.
THE U.S. AIR FORCE HAS FIRED THE
COMMANDER OF ITS NUCLEAR MISSILE
FORCE.
MAJOR GENERAL MICHAEL CAREY WAS
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE AIR FORCE'S
450 INTERCONTINENTAL BALLISTIC
MISSILES.
HE'S BEEN REASSIGNED OVER
ALLEGED PERSONAL MISCONDUCT.
EARLIER THIS WEEK, THE NAVY
FIRED A VICE ADMIRAL WHO OVERSAW
NUCLEAR WEAPONS.
HE'S BEING INVESTIGATED OVER
GAMBLING ISSUES.
STILL AHEAD ON THE "NEWSHOUR": A
NOBEL PEACE PRIZE FOR DESTROYING
SYRIA'S CHEMICAL WEAPONS; THE
16-YEAR OLD WHO'S CAPTURED THE
WORLD STAGE TO PROMOTE GIRL'S
EDUCATION; A NEW DOCUMENTARY ON
AMERICA'S ECONOMIC DIVIDE;
SHIELDS AND BROOKS AND WORLD
TREASURES AT RISK IN MODERN
SOCIETIES.
AND WE RETURN NOW TO THE NOBEL
PEACE PRIZE AND THE LITTLE-KNOWN
GROUP THAT WON THE AWARD.
RAY SUAREZ HAS MORE.
>> THE NORWEGIAN NOBEL COMMITTEE
HAS DECIDED THAT THE NOBEL PEACE
PRIZE FOR 2013 IS TO BE AWARDED
TO THE ORGANIZATION FOR THE
PROHIBITION OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS-
>> Suarez: THE ANNOUNCEMENT IN
OSLO, NORWAY HONORED A GROUP
FORMED IN 1997, AND AFFILIATED
WITH THE UNITED NATIONS.
SINCE THEN, THE ORGANIZATION,
BASED IN THE HAGUE, HAS ENFORCED
THE CHEMICAL WEAPONS CONVENTION
BANNING THE PRODUCTION AND USE
OF SUCH WEAPONS.
>> RECENT EVENTS IN SYRIA, WHERE
CHEMICAL WEAPONS HAVE AGAIN BEEN
PUT TO USE, HAVE UNDERLINED THE
NEED TO ENHANCE THE EFFORTS TO
DO AWAY WITH SUCH WEAPONS.
>> Reporter: INDEED, THE EVENTS
IN AUGUST, THE U.N. ASSIGNED THE
O.P.C.W. TO INVESTIGATE ALLEGED
CHEMICAL ATTACKS BY THE SYRIAN
MILITARY.
THIS WEEK, THE GROUP'S EXPERTS
BEGAN INSPECTING AND DESTROYING
BASHAR AL ASSAD'S STOCKPILE OF
POISON GAS AND NERVE AGENTS
WITH A GOAL OF FINISHING BY MID-
204.1
THE GROUP'S DIRECTOR-GENERAL
VOICED HOPED TODAY THAT THE
WORLD WILL REFOCUS ON SYRIA.
>> I TRULY HOPE THAT THIS AWARD
AND THE O.P.C.W.'S ONGOING
MISSION TOGETHER WITH THE UNITED
NATIONS IN SYRIA WILL HELP
BROADER EFFORTS TO ACHIEVE PEACE
IN THAT COUNTRY AND END THE
SUFFERING OF ITS PEOPLE.
>> Suarez: SYRIAN REBELS
CRITICIZED THE PRIZE.
THE SYRIAN NATIONAL COITIALON
SAID IT MISSES THE REAL POINT.
>> IT SEEMS THAT THE WORLD
INSISTS ON FORGETTING THAT WE
HAVE OVER A 110,000 FALLEN
HEROES USING CONVENTIONAL
WEAPONS AND YET THE WORLD FOR
REASONS WHICH ARE OBVIOUS TO
EVERYBODY, FOCUSES ON THE ISSUE
OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS THAT ONLY
KILLED LESS THAN 1,400 PEOPLE.
>> Suarez: THE ASSAD GOVERNMENT
SAID THE PEACE PRIZE UNDERSCORES
ITS CREDIBILITY IN COOPERATING
WITH THE INSPECTORS.
TO TELL US MORE ABOUT THIS
YEAR'S PEACE PRIZE WINNER, I'M
JOINED NOW BY CHARLES DUELFER A
FORMER TOP UNITED NATIONS
WEAPONS INSPECTOR.
IS IT FAIR TO SAY THAT OUTSIDE
YOUR LINE OF WORK, THE O.P.C.W.
WAS NOT A WIDELY KNOWN
ORGANIZATION.
>> WELL, IT'S ONE OF THESE
ORGANIZATIONS WITH A LOT OF
LETTERS IN IT, BUT THE KEY THING
THAT THEY DO IS THEY IMPLEMENT
THE TREATY THAT BANS CHEMICAL
WEAPONS AND THEY'VE BEEN AROUND
FOR ABOUT 15 YEARS AND THEY'VE
BEEN PRETTY SUCCESSFUL OVER
THOSE 15 YEARS.
THE NUMBER OF COUNTRIES LEFT
WITH CHEMICAL WEAPONS IS VERY,
VERY SMALL.
SO THE PRIZE NOT ONLY RECOGNIZES
THE WORK BEING DONE IN SYRIA BUT
IT WORKS THE WORK THEY'VE DONE
FOR THE LAST 15 YEARS, WHICH IS
QUITE SUBSTANTIAL.
>> Suarez: SINCE THEY WON THEY
HAVE DESCRIBED AS U.N.
ASSOCIATED, U.N. AFFILIATED.
WHAT IS THE NATURE OF THE
ORGANIZATION.
DO THEY GET MONEY, SUPPORT, FROM
THE U.N. OR ARE THEY REALLY
INDEPENDENT?
>> IT'S COMPLICATED.
THE IMPLEMENTING ORGANIZATION
FOR THIS TREATY IS SEPARATE FROM
THE UNITED NATIONS AND THE
SECURITY COUNCIL BUT IT DOES
HAVE A RELATIONSHIP.
IT'S IMPORTANT IN THIS CASE
WHERE THE SECURITY COUNCIL,
WHICH IS MANDATING THE
DISARMAMENT OF SYRIA, HAS
ELECTED TO USE THE O.P.C.W. AS
THEIR IMPLEMENTING ARM.
THEY'RE TIED TOGETHER IN A
COMMON MISSION HERE.
THE SECURITY COUNCIL IIL WITH
RUSSIA, THE UNITED STATES,
FRANCE, CHINA, THE U.K., WITH
VETO POWER, AND THEY HAVE THE
ABILITY TO REALLY MAKE THIS
HIGHER LAW ARE CAUSING O.P.C.W.
TO ACT IN SYRIA.
>> Suarez: WHAT THEY'RE DOING
IN SYRIA, CONFISCATING, CA CAN
CATEGORYING AND THEN DESTROYING
CHEMICAL WEAPONS, IS THAT A KIND
OF EXPERTISE THAT IT NOT WIDELY
DISTRIBUTED THAT YOU NEED AN
ORGANIZATION LIKE THIS TO DO.
>> THEY AREN'T.
IN MANY WAYS THIS IS A GOOD
THING.
THERE AREN'T THAT MANY CHEMICAL
WEAPONS AROUND.
WEAPONS EXPERTS, SO TO GET RID
THERE AREN'T THAT MANY CHEMICAL
OF THIS STUFF YOU NEED
WEAPONS EXPERTS, SO TO GET RID
CHEMISTS.
OF THIS STUFF YOU NEED
YOU NEED PEOPLE FAMILIAR WITH
CHEMISTS.
THE SAFETY ISSUES AND KNOW HOW
YOU NEED PEOPLE FAMILIAR WITH
TO RESPOND IF THERE'S AN
THE SAFETY ISSUES AND KNOW HOW
ACCIDENT.
TO RESPOND IF THERE'S AN
YOU NEED SECURITY PEOPLE BECAUSE
ACCIDENT.
IN SYRIA THERE'S A LOT OF
YOU NEED SECURITY PEOPLE BECAUSE
SECURITY ISSUES.
IN SYRIA THERE'S A LOT OF
SO THERE'S A MIX OF PEOPLE THAT
SECURITY ISSUES.
THEY NEED.
SO THERE'S A MIX OF PEOPLE THAT
THEY'RE GOING TO HAVE TO BE
THEY NEED.
HIRING, FRANKLY, TO EXECUTE THIS
THEY'RE GOING TO HAVE TO BE
MISSION. MISSION.
HIRING, FRANKLY, TO EXECUTE THIS
>> Suarez: THEY ARE NOW IN
MISSION. MISSION.
SYRIA BECAUSE IN PART SYRIA
>> Suarez: THEY ARE NOW IN
FINAL PLEA BECAME A SIGNATORY TO
SYRIA BECAUSE IN PART SYRIA
THE CHEMICAL WEAPON CONVENTION.
FINAL PLEA BECAME A SIGNATORY TO
IS THAT WHAT GIVES THE O.P.C.W.
THE CHEMICAL WEAPON CONVENTION.
THE AUTHORITY TO DO THIS WORK?
IS THAT WHAT GIVES THE O.P.C.W.
ONCE YOU BECOME A SIGNATORY YOU
THE AUTHORITY TO DO THIS WORK?
ARE SUBMITTING YOURSELF TO THE
ONCE YOU BECOME A SIGNATORY YOU
GAZE OF THIS OUTFIT.
ARE SUBMITTING YOURSELF TO THE
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
GAZE OF THIS OUTFIT.
SYRIA MADE THE DECISION LARGELY
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
MADE ON ADVICE I THINK FROM
SYRIA MADE THE DECISION LARGELY
RUSSIA TO JOIN THE CHEMICAL
MADE ON ADVICE I THINK FROM
WEAPONS CONVENTION, AND IN DOING
RUSSIA TO JOIN THE CHEMICAL
THAT THEY ASSUME A LOT OF
WEAPONS CONVENTION, AND IN DOING
OBLIGATIONS -- TO HAVE
THAT THEY ASSUME A LOT OF
INSPECTORS, TO DISARM.
OBLIGATIONS -- TO HAVE
THERE'S A LONG PROCESS AND
INSPECTORS, TO DISARM.
THERE'S A LONG TRACK RECORD FOR
THERE'S A LONG PROCESS AND
ACCOMPLISHING THIS THAT THEY
THERE'S A LONG TRACK RECORD FOR
HAVE TO NOW FOLLOW.
ACCOMPLISHING THIS THAT THEY
THE SECURITY COUNCIL HAS LAID
HAVE TO NOW FOLLOW.
DOWN A VERY TOUGH TIMELINE AND
THE SECURITY COUNCIL HAS LAID
TIME SCHEDULE AND HAVE ALSO
DOWN A VERY TOUGH TIMELINE AND
INCREETSED SOME OF THE
TIME SCHEDULE AND HAVE ALSO
AUTHORITIES OF THE WEAPONS
INCREETSED SOME OF THE
INSPECTORS ITSELF TO EXECUTE
AUTHORITIES OF THE WEAPONS
THIS MISSION.
INSPECTORS ITSELF TO EXECUTE
>> Suarez: AS FAR AS YOU KNOW,
THIS MISSION.
ARE THEY DOING A GOOD JOB IN
>> Suarez: AS FAR AS YOU KNOW,
SYRIA SO FAR, BOTH SIDES ARE
ARE THEY DOING A GOOD JOB IN
DOING WHAT THEY SIGNED UP FOR.
SYRIA SO FAR, BOTH SIDES ARE
THE WEAPONS INSPECTORS ARE
DOING WHAT THEY SIGNED UP FOR.
THERE.
THE WEAPONS INSPECTORS ARE
AND THE SIR JANS SO FAR, LAID
THERE.
OUT WHAT THEY'VE GOT WITH PRETTY
AND THE SIR JANS SO FAR, LAID
GOOD CREDIBILITY.
OUT WHAT THEY'VE GOT WITH PRETTY
YOU KNOW, SOMETIMES GOOD THINGS
GOOD CREDIBILITY.
HAPPEN.
YOU KNOW, SOMETIMES GOOD THINGS
SO FAR, SO GOOD.
HAPPEN.
>> Suarez: WHEN ORGANIZATIONS
SO FAR, SO GOOD.
LIKE DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS WIN
>> Suarez: WHEN ORGANIZATIONS
THE NOBEL PEACE PRIZE THELPS
LIKE DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS WIN
THEM A GREAT DEAL IN THEIR
THE NOBEL PEACE PRIZE THELPS
OUTREACH TO THE WORLD, IN THEIR
THEM A GREAT DEAL IN THEIR
FUND-RAISING, IN THEIR NAME
OUTREACH TO THE WORLD, IN THEIR
RECOGNITION.
FUND-RAISING, IN THEIR NAME
IS O.P.C.W. THE KIND OF OUTFIT
RECOGNITION.
THAT ACTUALLY NEEDS A BOOST TOTS
IS O.P.C.W. THE KIND OF OUTFIT
PROFILE ALONG WITH ITS
THAT ACTUALLY NEEDS A BOOST TOTS
CONTRIBUTIONS?
PROFILE ALONG WITH ITS
>> I HAVE TO SUPPORT COMMITTEE,
CONTRIBUTIONS?
WHICH IS A NORWEGIAN COMMITTEE
>> I HAVE TO SUPPORT COMMITTEE,
SELECTED THEM BECAUSE THEY COULD
WHICH IS A NORWEGIAN COMMITTEE
MAKE A DIFFERENCE AT THIS POINT
SELECTED THEM BECAUSE THEY COULD
IN TIME.
MAKE A DIFFERENCE AT THIS POINT
THE PRESTIGE ASSOCIATED WITH THE
IN TIME.
PRIZE, I THINK, WILL PROBABLY
THE PRESTIGE ASSOCIATED WITH THE
MAKE IT MORE LIKELY THAT SYRIA
PRIZE, I THINK, WILL PROBABLY
WILL FULFILL ALL ITS
MAKE IT MORE LIKELY THAT SYRIA
OBLIGATIONS.
WILL FULFILL ALL ITS
IN FACT THEY, DO NEED TO RAISE
OBLIGATIONS.
MONEY AND HAVING THE NOBEL PRIZE
IN FACT THEY, DO NEED TO RAISE
AND THAT PRESTIGE WILL HELP THEM
MONEY AND HAVING THE NOBEL PRIZE
GET THE RESOURCES TO EXECUTE
AND THAT PRESTIGE WILL HELP THEM
THIS MISSION.
GET THE RESOURCES TO EXECUTE
I THINK IT BRINGS ATTENTION TO A
THIS MISSION.
PROBLEM WHICH HAS BEEN GLOBAL,
I THINK IT BRINGS ATTENTION TO A
WHICH NEAR ERADICATION IN A
PROBLEM WHICH HAS BEEN GLOBAL,
SENSE.
WHICH NEAR ERADICATION IN A
IN SOME WAYS I THINK I WOULD
SENSE.
COMPARE IT TO THE EFFORT TO GET
IN SOME WAYS I THINK I WOULD
RID OF SMALLPOX.
COMPARE IT TO THE EFFORT TO GET
THEY'RE PRETTY CLOSE TO GETTING
RID OF SMALLPOX.
RID OF ALL THE CHEMICAL WEAPONS,
THEY'RE PRETTY CLOSE TO GETTING
DECLARED CHEMICAL WEAPONS BY
RID OF ALL THE CHEMICAL WEAPONS,
COUNTRIES ON THE PLANET.
DECLARED CHEMICAL WEAPONS BY
>> Suarez: QUICKLY, BEFORE WE
COUNTRIES ON THE PLANET.
GO, WHO ARE THE FINAL HOLD
>> Suarez: QUICKLY, BEFORE WE
OUTS?
GO, WHO ARE THE FINAL HOLD
WHERE CAN YOU STILL FIND
OUTS?
CHEMICAL WEAPONS, THESE WEAPONS
WHERE CAN YOU STILL FIND
ARE THAT ARE JUDGED AS JUST
CHEMICAL WEAPONS, THESE WEAPONS
BEYOND USE, ODIOUS BY THE REST
ARE THAT ARE JUDGED AS JUST
OF THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY?
BEYOND USE, ODIOUS BY THE REST
>> THERE ARE TWO PARTS OF THE
OF THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY?
ANSWER TO THAT.
>> THERE ARE TWO PARTS OF THE
ONE THERE ARE THE COUNTRIES WHO
ANSWER TO THAT.
DECLARE THEY HAVE THEM AND
ONE THERE ARE THE COUNTRIES WHO
HAVEN'T GOTTEN RID OF THEM ALL,
DECLARE THEY HAVE THEM AND
AND THAT'S LARGELY THE UNITED
HAVEN'T GOTTEN RID OF THEM ALL,
STATES AND RUSSIA WHERE THEY
AND THAT'S LARGELY THE UNITED
HAVE MASSIVE STOCKS LEFT OVER
STATES AND RUSSIA WHERE THEY
FROM THE COLD WAR AND THEY'RE
HAVE MASSIVE STOCKS LEFT OVER
STILL WORKING THEIR WAY THROUGH
FROM THE COLD WAR AND THEY'RE
GETTING RID OF THOSE.
STILL WORKING THEIR WAY THROUGH
THERE ARE A FEW OUTLIARS WHO
GETTING RID OF THOSE.
HAVEN'T SUBSCRIBED TO.
THERE ARE A FEW OUTLIARS WHO
EGYPT STANDS OUT.
HAVEN'T SUBSCRIBED TO.
THEY HAVE NOT SUBSCRIBED TO IT.
EGYPT STANDS OUT.
I THINK THERE WILL BE INCREASING
THEY HAVE NOT SUBSCRIBED TO IT.
PRESSURE ON THE FEW REMAINING
I THINK THERE WILL BE INCREASING
COUNTRIES TO JOIN WITH THE REST
PRESSURE ON THE FEW REMAINING
OF THE WORLD ON THIS GL CHARLE.
COUNTRIES TO JOIN WITH THE REST
>> Suarez: CHARLES DUELFER,
OF THE WORLD ON THIS GL CHARLE.
THANK YOU FOR JOINING US.
>> Suarez: CHARLES DUELFER,
>> THANK YOU, RAY.
THANK YOU FOR JOINING US.
>> Woodruff: NOW TO A CLOSER
>> THANK YOU, RAY.
LOOK AT ONE OF THE FAVORITES FOR
>> Woodruff: NOW TO A CLOSER
THIS YEAR'S PEACE PRIZE-- MALALA
LOOK AT ONE OF THE FAVORITES FOR
YOUSAFZAI OF PAKISTAN.
THIS YEAR'S PEACE PRIZE-- MALALA
OUR OWN MARGARET WARNER SPENT
YOUSAFZAI OF PAKISTAN.
TIME WITH THE YOUNG ACTIVIST IN
OUR OWN MARGARET WARNER SPENT
WASHINGTON THIS AFTERNOON AND
TIME WITH THE YOUNG ACTIVIST IN
BEGINS WITH THIS REPORT.
WASHINGTON THIS AFTERNOON AND
>> LET US PICK UP OUR BOOKS AND
BEGINS WITH THIS REPORT.
OUR PENS.
>> LET US PICK UP OUR BOOKS AND
THEY ARE OUR MOST POWERFUL
OUR PENS.
WEAPONS.
THEY ARE OUR MOST POWERFUL
>> Warner: SPENDING HER 16th
WEAPONS.
BIRTHDAY AS NO ONE ELSE EVER
>> Warner: SPENDING HER 16th
HAS, THIS PAKISTANI STUDENT
BIRTHDAY AS NO ONE ELSE EVER
CAPTIVATEE AT THE UNITED NATIONS
HAS, THIS PAKISTANI STUDENT
THREE MONTHS AGO.
CAPTIVATEE AT THE UNITED NATIONS
>> ONE CHILD, ONE TEACHER, ONE
THREE MONTHS AGO.
BOOK AND ONE PEN CAN CHANGE THE
>> ONE CHILD, ONE TEACHER, ONE
WORLD.
BOOK AND ONE PEN CAN CHANGE THE
EDUCATION IS THE ONLY SOLUTION.
WORLD.
EDUCATION FIRST.
EDUCATION IS THE ONLY SOLUTION.
>> Warner: AND IN MARCH, SHE
EDUCATION FIRST.
BECAME THE YOUNGEST-EVER NOMINEE
>> Warner: AND IN MARCH, SHE
FOR THE NOBEL PEACE PRIZE.
BECAME THE YOUNGEST-EVER NOMINEE
MALALA YOUSAFZAI'S CALL TO
FOR THE NOBEL PEACE PRIZE.
EDUCATE GIRLS BEGAN IN 2009 IN
MALALA YOUSAFZAI'S CALL TO
WHAT ONCE HAD BEEN PAKISTAN'S
EDUCATE GIRLS BEGAN IN 2009 IN
VACATION PARADISE, THE SWAT
WHAT ONCE HAD BEEN PAKISTAN'S
VALLEY.
VACATION PARADISE, THE SWAT
JUST 11, SHE BEGAN WRITING A
VALLEY.
BLOG FOR BBC URDU ABOUT LIFE
JUST 11, SHE BEGAN WRITING A
UNDER THE ULTRA-CONSERVATIVE
BLOG FOR BBC URDU ABOUT LIFE
TALIBAN, WHO HAD TAKEN OVER
UNDER THE ULTRA-CONSERVATIVE
SWAT.
TALIBAN, WHO HAD TAKEN OVER
ENCOURAGED BY HER FATHER-- A
SWAT.
GIRL'S SCHOOL OWNER AND ACTIVIST
ENCOURAGED BY HER FATHER-- A
HIMSELF-- SHE RAISED HER VOICE
GIRL'S SCHOOL OWNER AND ACTIVIST
AGAINST THE TALIBAN'S BRUTALITY,
HIMSELF-- SHE RAISED HER VOICE
AND ITS BAN ON GIRLS' EDUCATION.
AGAINST THE TALIBAN'S BRUTALITY,
WITH THE RELEASE OF A "NEW YORK
AND ITS BAN ON GIRLS' EDUCATION.
TIMES" DOCUMENTARY THAT YEAR,
WITH THE RELEASE OF A "NEW YORK
SHE BECAME A MEDIA CELEBRITY IN
TIMES" DOCUMENTARY THAT YEAR,
PAKISTAN AND BEYOND, BUT HER
SHE BECAME A MEDIA CELEBRITY IN
WORK DREW THE IRE OF THOSE WHO
PAKISTAN AND BEYOND, BUT HER
OPPOSED HER MESSAGE.
WORK DREW THE IRE OF THOSE WHO
( SIRENS )
OPPOSED HER MESSAGE.
AND A YEAR AGO THIS WEEK, AS THE
( SIRENS )
15-YEAR-OLD WAS RIDING HOME IN A
AND A YEAR AGO THIS WEEK, AS THE
SCHOOL BUS WITH HER FRIENDS, A
15-YEAR-OLD WAS RIDING HOME IN A
TALIBAN GUNMAN BOARDED THE BUS
SCHOOL BUS WITH HER FRIENDS, A
AND SHOT HER IN THE HEAD.
TALIBAN GUNMAN BOARDED THE BUS
THE INJURIES WERE LIFE-
AND SHOT HER IN THE HEAD.
THREATENING.
THE INJURIES WERE LIFE-
SHE WAS UNCONSCIOUS FOR DAYS.
THREATENING.
BUT, ONCE FLOWN TO THE U.K. FOR
SHE WAS UNCONSCIOUS FOR DAYS.
SURGERY AND REHABILITATION, SHE
BUT, ONCE FLOWN TO THE U.K. FOR
MADE A REMARKABLE RECOVERY.
SURGERY AND REHABILITATION, SHE
BOYS AND GIRLS FROM PAKISTAN AND
MADE A REMARKABLE RECOVERY.
AROUND THE WORLD RALLIED TO HER
BOYS AND GIRLS FROM PAKISTAN AND
SIDE AND HER CAUSE, PROCLAIMING
AROUND THE WORLD RALLIED TO HER
"I AM MALALA."
SIDE AND HER CAUSE, PROCLAIMING
SHE NOW GOES TO SCHOOL IN THE
"I AM MALALA."
U.K., WHERE SHE LIVES WITH HER
SHE NOW GOES TO SCHOOL IN THE
FAMILY.
U.K., WHERE SHE LIVES WITH HER
BUT THE AWARDS KEPT COMING AND
FAMILY.
THE DEMANDS TO SPEAK.
BUT THE AWARDS KEPT COMING AND
>> WE CAN FIGHT WAR THROUGH
THE DEMANDS TO SPEAK.
DIALOGUE, PEACE AND EDUCATION!
>> WE CAN FIGHT WAR THROUGH
>> Warner: AND SHE'S NOW ON THE
DIALOGUE, PEACE AND EDUCATION!
ROAD PROMOTING HER JUST-RELEASED
>> Warner: AND SHE'S NOW ON THE
BOOK "I AM MALALA."
ROAD PROMOTING HER JUST-RELEASED
IN THE FACE OF THE WORLD'S
BOOK "I AM MALALA."
PRAISE, SOME BACK IN PAKISTAN
IN THE FACE OF THE WORLD'S
ARE MORE SKEPTICAL.
PRAISE, SOME BACK IN PAKISTAN
>> ( translated ): ALL THIS
ARE MORE SKEPTICAL.
RECOGNITION MAY BE GOOD FOR HER
>> ( translated ): ALL THIS
IT MAY BE GOOD FOR HER FAMILY.
BUT WE HAVE NOT BENEFITED FROM
IT.
NEITHER HAS SWAT GAINED FROM IT
IN ANY WAY, NOR OUR EDUCATIONAL
>> Warner: BUT SHE CONTINUES
SPEAKING AND RAISING MONEY TO
BRING EDUCATION TO MORE GIRLS
AROUND THE WORLD, DESPITE
RENEWED DEATH THREATS AGAINST
HER FROM THE TALIBAN.
I SPOKE TO THE YOUNG ACTIVIST
LEADER EARLIER TODAY.
MALALA YOUSAFZAI, THANK YOU FOR
JOINING US.
TELL US WHAT INSPIRED YOU AT
SUCH A YOUNG AGE TO STAR START
SPEAK OUT FOR GIRLS' EDUCATION,
AND REALLY IN SUCH A DANGEROUS
ENVIRONMENT.
>> FIRST OF ALL, MY FATHER
INSPIRED ME BECAUSE HE'S A GREAT
FATHER AND A GREAT SOCIAL
ACTIVIST AND WOMEN'S RIGHTS
ACTIVISTS.
AT THAT TIME, WHEN THEY WERE
SUFFERING FROM TERRORISM, HE
SPOKE, HE SPOKE OUT.
AND HE SPOKE FOR WOMEN'S RIGHTS
BECAUSE AT THAT TIME, MORE THAN
400 SCHOOLS, PEOPLE WERE
SLAUGHTERED, MARKETS WERE
CLOSED.
THERE WERE BANS ON WOMEN TO GO
TO MARKET.
GIRLS WERE NOT ALLOWED TO GO TO
SCHOOL, AND IN THAT HARD
SITUATION, HE INSPIRED ME
BECAUSE HE SPOKE AND THAT'S WHAT
I LEARNED FROM HIM.
>> Warner: DID YOU EVER THINK,
THOUGH, YOUR OUTSPOKENNESS, AND
THE FACT YOU BECAME A MEDIA STAR
IN PAKISTAN WOULD MAKE YOU OR
YOUR FAMILY A TARGET?
>> I THINK BEING LIVING IN SUCH
A HARD SITUATION WHEN THERE ARE
TERRORIST TERRORISTS AND THEY
SLAUGHTER PEOPLE EVERY NIGHT,
IT'S STILL HARD.
IT'S STILL A THREAT.
SO IT'S A BETTER IDEA TO SPEAK
UP FOR YOUR RIGHTS AND THEN
DIE.
I PREFER THAT ONE.
SO THAT'S WHY, WE SPOKE AT THAT
TIME.
WE SAID ONE HAS TO SPEAK.
WHY ARE WE WAITING FOR SOMEONE
ELSE?
THE GOVERNMENTS WERE NOT TAKE AN
ACTION.
THE ARMY WAS NOT TAKING A GOOD
SO THAT'S WHY WE SAID THAT WE
ACTION.
WILL SPEAK UP FOR THE RIGHTS.
SO THAT'S WHY WE SAID THAT WE
THIS IS WHAT WE CAN DO AND WE
WILL SPEAK UP FOR THE RIGHTS.
TRIED OUR BEST.
THIS IS WHAT WE CAN DO AND WE
>> Warner: NOW YOU'VE BEEN
TRIED OUR BEST.
FORCED, OF COURSE, TO LEAVE
>> Warner: NOW YOU'VE BEEN
PAKISTAN.
FORCED, OF COURSE, TO LEAVE
YOU'VE BECOME THIS INTERNATIONAL
PAKISTAN.
SYMBOL OF BRAVERY AND SPEAKING
YOU'VE BECOME THIS INTERNATIONAL
UP FOR GIRLS' EDUCATION.
SYMBOL OF BRAVERY AND SPEAKING
BUT WHAT HAS HAPPENED TO THE
UP FOR GIRLS' EDUCATION.
GIRLS YOU LEFT BEHIND?
BUT WHAT HAS HAPPENED TO THE
WHAT IS THEIR SITUATION?
GIRLS YOU LEFT BEHIND?
>> THE GIRLS SOME PAKISTAN, IT'S
WHAT IS THEIR SITUATION?
REALLY HARD FOR THEM T TO GO TO
>> THE GIRLS SOME PAKISTAN, IT'S
SCHOOL.
REALLY HARD FOR THEM T TO GO TO
MANY GIRLS WILL NOT GO TO SCHOOL
SCHOOL.
BECAUSE OF POVERTY.
MANY GIRLS WILL NOT GO TO SCHOOL
AND SOME BECAUSE OF CHILD LABOR
BECAUSE OF POVERTY.
AND TRAFFICKING.
AND SOME BECAUSE OF CHILD LABOR
SOME PARENTS DON'T SEND THEIR
AND TRAFFICKING.
CHILDREN TO SCHOOL BECAUSE THEY
SOME PARENTS DON'T SEND THEIR
DON'T KNOW IT'S IMPORTANT AT
CHILDREN TO SCHOOL BECAUSE THEY
ALL.
DON'T KNOW IT'S IMPORTANT AT
AND SOME GIRLS WON'T GO TO
ALL.
SCHOOL BECAUSE OF THE CULTURE'S
AND SOME GIRLS WON'T GO TO
NORMS AND TABUS SO THERE ARE
SCHOOL BECAUSE OF THE CULTURE'S
STILL MANY ISSUES STOPPING US TO
NORMS AND TABUS SO THERE ARE
GO TO SCHOOL.
STILL MANY ISSUES STOPPING US TO
>> Warner: WHY DO YOU THINK
GO TO SCHOOL.
THE TALIBAN-- WHAT IS THEIR
>> Warner: WHY DO YOU THINK
VISION OF ISLAM THAT MAKES THEM
THE TALIBAN-- WHAT IS THEIR
SO OPPOSED TO GIRLS' EDUCATION,
VISION OF ISLAM THAT MAKES THEM
AND IF SO, CAN YOU REALLY CHANGE
SO OPPOSED TO GIRLS' EDUCATION,
THAT, AND CAN YOU CHANGE THAT
AND IF SO, CAN YOU REALLY CHANGE
CULTURE JUST BY EDUCATING
THAT, AND CAN YOU CHANGE THAT
GIRLS.
CULTURE JUST BY EDUCATING
>> THE FIRST THING IS THE
GIRLS.
TALIBAN HAVE MISUNDERSTOOD
>> THE FIRST THING IS THE
ISLAM.
TALIBAN HAVE MISUNDERSTOOD
THEY HAVE NEVER STUDIED ISLAM
ISLAM.
DEEPLY.
THEY HAVE NEVER STUDIED ISLAM
I THINK THEY HAVE NOT READ THE
DEEPLY.
KORAN, EVEN, BECAUSE IN ISLAM IT
I THINK THEY HAVE NOT READ THE
IS SAID THAT IT IS THE RIGHT OF
KORAN, EVEN, BECAUSE IN ISLAM IT
EVERY GIRL AND EVERY BOY TO GET
IS SAID THAT IT IS THE RIGHT OF
EDUCATION, TO GET KNOWLEDGE.
EVERY GIRL AND EVERY BOY TO GET
ISLAM SAYS ABOUT EQUALITY,
EDUCATION, TO GET KNOWLEDGE.
THERE'S NO DIFFERENCE BETWEEN A
ISLAM SAYS ABOUT EQUALITY,
MAN AND A WOMAN.
THERE'S NO DIFFERENCE BETWEEN A
ISLAM TELLS US TO RESPECT EACH
MAN AND A WOMAN.
OTHER, DON'T JUDGE EACH OTHER ON
ISLAM TELLS US TO RESPECT EACH
THE BASIS OF RELIGION.
OTHER, DON'T JUDGE EACH OTHER ON
SO I THINK THE TERRORISTS HAVE
THE BASIS OF RELIGION.
FORGOTTETERRORISTS HAVE FORGOTT.
SO I THINK THE TERRORISTS HAVE
THEY MUST READ KORAN FIRST, THEY
FORGOTTETERRORISTS HAVE FORGOTT.
MUST LEARN FROM IT FIRST, SO
THEY MUST READ KORAN FIRST, THEY
THAT'S WHY THEY ARE MISUSING THE
MUST LEARN FROM IT FIRST, SO
NAME OF ISLAM FOR THEIR OWN
THAT'S WHY THEY ARE MISUSING THE
PERSONAL BENEFITS.
NAME OF ISLAM FOR THEIR OWN
>> Warner: THERE HAS BEEN A
PERSONAL BENEFITS.
BACKLASH AGAINST YOU.
>> Warner: THERE HAS BEEN A
SOME PACK TAKENS SAY YOU SHAMED
BACKLASH AGAINST YOU.
THEIR COUNTRY OR AN AGENT OF
SOME PACK TAKENS SAY YOU SHAMED
WESTERN INTEREST WHO WANT TO
THEIR COUNTRY OR AN AGENT OF
UNDERMINE PACK STAB OR ISLAM.
WESTERN INTEREST WHO WANT TO
HOW DOES THAT MAKE YOU FEEL WHEN
UNDERMINE PACK STAB OR ISLAM.
YOU'RE OUT HERE FIGHTING THIS
HOW DOES THAT MAKE YOU FEEL WHEN
FIGHT?
YOU'RE OUT HERE FIGHTING THIS
>> THE FIRST THING IS IT'S ONE'S
FIGHT?
RIGHT TO EXPRESS HIS FEELINGS OR
>> THE FIRST THING IS IT'S ONE'S
HER FEELINGS.
RIGHT TO EXPRESS HIS FEELINGS OR
WHEN I LOOK AT THE GROUPS THAT
HER FEELINGS.
SPEAK AGAINST ME IN PAKISTAN OR
WHEN I LOOK AT THE GROUPS THAT
ANYWHERE, IT'S A VERY SMALL
SPEAK AGAINST ME IN PAKISTAN OR
GROUP, A VERY TINY GROUP.
ANYWHERE, IT'S A VERY SMALL
I MUST LOOK AT THE MILLIONS OF
GROUP, A VERY TINY GROUP.
PEOPLE'S PRAYERS, AND THE PEOPLE
I MUST LOOK AT THE MILLIONS OF
WHO ARE SUPPORTING ME.
PEOPLE'S PRAYERS, AND THE PEOPLE
I THINK I MUST NOT LOSE HOPE AND
WHO ARE SUPPORTING ME.
I MUST NOT LOOK AT THE SMALL
I THINK I MUST NOT LOSE HOPE AND
GROUP.
I MUST NOT LOOK AT THE SMALL
RATHER I MUST SEE THOSE MILLIONS
GROUP.
OF PEOPLE PRAYING FOR ME AND
RATHER I MUST SEE THOSE MILLIONS
SUPPORTING ME IN MY CAUSE OF
OF PEOPLE PRAYING FOR ME AND
EDUCATION.
SUPPORTING ME IN MY CAUSE OF
>> Warner: THERE WAS A NEW
EDUCATION.
THREAT ISSUED JUST THIS WEEK
>> Warner: THERE WAS A NEW
FROM A TALIBAN SPOKESMAN WHO
THREAT ISSUED JUST THIS WEEK
SAID ESSENTIALLY IF SHE KEEPS
FROM A TALIBAN SPOKESMAN WHO
SPEAK OUT LIKE THIS WE WILL
SAID ESSENTIALLY IF SHE KEEPS
TARGET HER AGAIN AND ATTACK
SPEAK OUT LIKE THIS WE WILL
WHENEVER WE GET THE CHANCE.
TARGET HER AGAIN AND ATTACK
DO YOU FEEL YOU'RE STILL IN
WHENEVER WE GET THE CHANCE.
DANGER, EVEN LIVING ABROAD?
DO YOU FEEL YOU'RE STILL IN
>> I THINK THE TALIBAN REMINDED
DANGER, EVEN LIVING ABROAD?
ME OF THE THREATS.
>> I THINK THE TALIBAN REMINDED
>> Warner: IS THERE A
ME OF THE THREATS.
DIFFERENCE?
>> Warner: IS THERE A
>> THE THING IS THAT THEY'VE
DIFFERENCE?
ALREADY THREATENED ME WHEN I WAS
>> THE THING IS THAT THEY'VE
IN SWAT, AND LATER ON THEY
ALREADY THREATENED ME WHEN I WAS
ATTACKED ME, BUT THE THING IS
IN SWAT, AND LATER ON THEY
NOW I'M LIVING A SECOND LIFE.
ATTACKED ME, BUT THE THING IS
AND GOD HAS GIVEN ME THIS NEW
NOW I'M LIVING A SECOND LIFE.
LIFE FOR THE CAUSE OF
AND GOD HAS GIVEN ME THIS NEW
EDUCATION.
LIFE FOR THE CAUSE OF
>> AND BELIEVE EVEN DEATH ISCAU,
EDUCATION.
EVEN DEAD DOES NOT WANT TO KILL
>> AND BELIEVE EVEN DEATH ISCAU,
ME, SO HOW CAN THIS TALIBAN KILL
EVEN DEAD DOES NOT WANT TO KILL
ME?
ME, SO HOW CAN THIS TALIBAN KILL
I THINK I MUST NOT BE AFRAID OF
ME?
DEATH.
I THINK I MUST NOT BE AFRAID OF
I MIGHT HAVE BEEN BEFORE, BUT
DEATH.
NOW THEY THREAT ME, I'M NOT
I MIGHT HAVE BEEN BEFORE, BUT
AFRAID OF ANY THREAT.
NOW THEY THREAT ME, I'M NOT
I HAVE SEEN IT ALREADY.
AFRAID OF ANY THREAT.
SO NOW I'M MORE POWERFUL.
I HAVE SEEN IT ALREADY.
NOW I'M MORE COURAGEOUS, AND I
SO NOW I'M MORE POWERFUL.
WILL CONTINUE MY CAMPAIGN.
NOW I'M MORE COURAGEOUS, AND I
>> Warner: NOW, DO YOU GET TO
WILL CONTINUE MY CAMPAIGN.
GO TO SCHOOL YOURSELF ANYMORE
>> Warner: NOW, DO YOU GET TO
WITH ALL THESE PUBLIC
GO TO SCHOOL YOURSELF ANYMORE
APPEARANCES?
WITH ALL THESE PUBLIC
DO YOU HAVE ANY SEMBLANCE OF A
APPEARANCES?
NORMAL LIFE IN ENGLAND?
DO YOU HAVE ANY SEMBLANCE OF A
>> I GO TO SCHOOL IN A CAR
NORMAL LIFE IN ENGLAND?
BECAUSE IT'S PART OF IT.
>> I GO TO SCHOOL IN A CAR
IT'S TRUE WHEN I GO TO A MARKET,
BECAUSE IT'S PART OF IT.
WHEN GITO A PARK, PEOPLE GATHER
IT'S TRUE WHEN I GO TO A MARKET,
AROUND ME AND THEY WANT TO TALK
WHEN GITO A PARK, PEOPLE GATHER
TO ME.
AROUND ME AND THEY WANT TO TALK
THEY WANT TO HAVE PICTURE WITH
TO ME.
ME.
THEY WANT TO HAVE PICTURE WITH
SOME PEOPLE WANT AUTOGRAPH.
ME.
IT IS THE LOVE OF PEOPLE, AND I
SOME PEOPLE WANT AUTOGRAPH.
THINK IT'S A GREAT HONOR FOR ME
IT IS THE LOVE OF PEOPLE, AND I
NANOW PEOPLE-- NOW I CAN REACH
THINK IT'S A GREAT HONOR FOR ME
PEOPLE.
NANOW PEOPLE-- NOW I CAN REACH
>> Warner: THERE WAS A LOT OF
PEOPLE.
IEPGZ THIS WEEK, THE LAST FEW
>> Warner: THERE WAS A LOT OF
WEEKS, NAYOU, THE YOUNGEST EVER
IEPGZ THIS WEEK, THE LAST FEW
NOBEL PRIZE NOMINEE, WAS GOING
WEEKS, NAYOU, THE YOUNGEST EVER
TO WIN TODAY, AND IT WENT
NOBEL PRIZE NOMINEE, WAS GOING
ELSEWHERE.
TO WIN TODAY, AND IT WENT
WHAT WAS IT LIKE-- WHAT DID IT
ELSEWHERE.
FEEL LIKE, FIRST OF ALL, TO HAVE
WHAT WAS IT LIKE-- WHAT DID IT
ALL THOSE EXPECTATIONS?
FEEL LIKE, FIRST OF ALL, TO HAVE
AND IS IT A LET-DOWN NOT TO HAVE
ALL THOSE EXPECTATIONS?
WON?
AND IS IT A LET-DOWN NOT TO HAVE
>> IF WE JUST FORGET ABOUT THE
WON?
DECISION THAT WAS TAKEN ABOUT
>> IF WE JUST FORGET ABOUT THE
THE NOBEL PEACE PRIZE, I THINK
DECISION THAT WAS TAKEN ABOUT
PEOPLE GAVE ME THAT PRIZE.
THE NOBEL PEACE PRIZE, I THINK
THEY NOMINATED ME, AND THAT IS
PEOPLE GAVE ME THAT PRIZE.
THE GREAT PRIZE FOR ME.
THEY NOMINATED ME, AND THAT IS
IF I GET AN AWARD, IF I GET A
THE GREAT PRIZE FOR ME.
PAPER, IT DOES NOT MATTER.
IF I GET AN AWARD, IF I GET A
BECAUSE WHEN I LOOK AT THE
PAPER, IT DOES NOT MATTER.
PRAYERS OF PEOPLE AND THEIR
BECAUSE WHEN I LOOK AT THE
SUPPORT AND HOW MUCH THEY LOVE
PRAYERS OF PEOPLE AND THEIR
ME, I THINK THAT IS THE BIGGEST
SUPPORT AND HOW MUCH THEY LOVE
PRIZE THAT I HAVE EVER
ME, I THINK THAT IS THE BIGGEST
RECEIVED.
PRIZE THAT I HAVE EVER
AND THEN I HAVE A PRIZE IN MY
RECEIVED.
MIND FOR WHICH I'LL STRUGGLE,
AND THEN I HAVE A PRIZE IN MY
FOR WHICH I'LL DO THE CAMPAIGN,
MIND FOR WHICH I'LL STRUGGLE,
AND THAT IS THE PRIZE, THAT IS
FOR WHICH I'LL DO THE CAMPAIGN,
THE REWARD TO SEE EVERY CHILD TO
AND THAT IS THE PRIZE, THAT IS
GO TO SCHOOL AND I'LL SERVE MY
THE REWARD TO SEE EVERY CHILD TO
WHOLE LIFE FOR THAT.
GO TO SCHOOL AND I'LL SERVE MY
THAT IS A PRIZE I WANT TO GET IN
WHOLE LIFE FOR THAT.
MY LIFE.
THAT IS A PRIZE I WANT TO GET IN
AND I THINK NOBEL PEACE PRIZE
MY LIFE.
COMMITTEE, THE DECISION THEY
AND I THINK NOBEL PEACE PRIZE
HAVE TAKEN, IS THE RIGHTDECISIOK
COMMITTEE, THE DECISION THEY
A LOT.
HAVE TAKEN, IS THE RIGHTDECISIOK
>> Warner: MALALA YOUSAFZAI,
A LOT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> Warner: MALALA YOUSAFZAI,
>> NICE TO TUKE YOU.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> Warner: IT WAS A GREAT
>> NICE TO TUKE YOU.
HONOR TO MEET YOU.
>> Warner: IT WAS A GREAT
>> Woodruff: NEXT, A PROFESSOR
HONOR TO MEET YOU.
AND FORMER GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL
>> Woodruff: NEXT, A PROFESSOR
WHO'S BEEN ON A DECADES-LONG
AND FORMER GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL
QUEST TO COMBAT INEQUALITY.
WHO'S BEEN ON A DECADES-LONG
NOW HE'S BECOME THE FOCUS OF A
QUEST TO COMBAT INEQUALITY.
NEW FILM.
NOW HE'S BECOME THE FOCUS OF A
"NEWSHOUR" ECONOMICS
NEW FILM.
CORRESPONDENT, PAUL SOLMAN, HAS
"NEWSHOUR" ECONOMICS
OUR LOOK.
CORRESPONDENT, PAUL SOLMAN, HAS
IT'S PART OF HIS ONGOING
OUR LOOK.
REPORTING: "MAKING SENSE OF
IT'S PART OF HIS ONGOING
FINANCIAL NEWS."
REPORTING: "MAKING SENSE OF
>> MY NAME IS ROBERT REICH.
FINANCIAL NEWS."
I WAS SECRETARY OF LABOR UNDER
>> MY NAME IS ROBERT REICH.
BILL CLINTON; BEFORE THAT, THE
I WAS SECRETARY OF LABOR UNDER
CARTER ADMINISTRATION; BEFORE
BILL CLINTON; BEFORE THAT, THE
THAT, I WAS A SPECIAL AIDE TO
CARTER ADMINISTRATION; BEFORE
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
THAT, I WAS A SPECIAL AIDE TO
( LAUGHTER )
ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
>> Reporter: THE IMPROBABLE STAR
( LAUGHTER )
OF AN UNLIKELY FEATURE FILM--
>> Reporter: THE IMPROBABLE STAR
THE CHART-AND GRAPH-FILLED,
OF AN UNLIKELY FEATURE FILM--
OFTEN FUNNY, SOMETIMES SAD
THE CHART-AND GRAPH-FILLED,
DOCUMENTARY "INEQUALITY FOR
OFTEN FUNNY, SOMETIMES SAD
ALL."
DOCUMENTARY "INEQUALITY FOR
OF ALL DEVELOPED NATIONS, THE
ALL."
UNITED STATES HAS THE MOST
OF ALL DEVELOPED NATIONS, THE
UNEQUAL DISTRIBUTION OF INCOME,
UNITED STATES HAS THE MOST
RESURGENT OR EVEN GREAT
UNEQUAL DISTRIBUTION OF INCOME,
INEQUALITY.
RESURGENT OR EVEN GREAT
ROBERT REICH, WELCOME.
INEQUALITY.
>> THANK YOU.
ROBERT REICH, WELCOME.
>> Reporter: WHAT'S THE BASIC
>> THANK YOU.
ARGUMENT HERE?
>> Reporter: WHAT'S THE BASIC
>> THE ARGUMENT IS THAT
ARGUMENT HERE?
INEQUALITY IS BAD FOR EVERYONE,
>> THE ARGUMENT IS THAT
NOT JUST THE MIDDLE CLASS AND
INEQUALITY IS BAD FOR EVERYONE,
POOR.
NOT JUST THE MIDDLE CLASS AND
95% OF THE GAINS, THE ECONOMIC
POOR.
GAINS, SINCE THE RECOVERY BEGAN
95% OF THE GAINS, THE ECONOMIC
IN 2009 ARE GOING TO THE TOP 1%.
GAINS, SINCE THE RECOVERY BEGAN
MEANWHILE MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD
IN 2009 ARE GOING TO THE TOP 1%.
INCOME KEEPS DROPPING, ADJUSTED
MEANWHILE MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD
FOR INFLATION.
INCOME KEEPS DROPPING, ADJUSTED
WELL, WHERE ARE PEOPLE GOING TO
FOR INFLATION.
GET THE MONEY THEY NEED TO KEEP
WELL, WHERE ARE PEOPLE GOING TO
THE ECONOMY GOING?
GET THE MONEY THEY NEED TO KEEP
>> Reporter: I FIRST MET YOU IN
THE ECONOMY GOING?
EARLY 1980s AND YOU WERE ALREADY
>> Reporter: I FIRST MET YOU IN
BEGINNING TO TALK ABOUT THIS
EARLY 1980s AND YOU WERE ALREADY
PHENOMENON OF INEQUALITY RIGHT?
BEGINNING TO TALK ABOUT THIS
>> I AM SO BORING, PAUL.
PHENOMENON OF INEQUALITY RIGHT?
I MEA I RN,EALLY, I BORE MYSELF.
>> I AM SO BORING, PAUL.
IN THIS MOVIE, I SEE MYSELF
I MEA I RN,EALLY, I BORE MYSELF.
TALKING ABOUT THIS SAME ISSUE,
IN THIS MOVIE, I SEE MYSELF
AND I'M IN MY EARLY 30s AND I'M
TALKING ABOUT THIS SAME ISSUE,
IN MY 40s, I'M IN MY 50s AND
AND I'M IN MY EARLY 30s AND I'M
IT'S, YOU KNOW, IF YOU EVER WANT
IN MY 40s, I'M IN MY 50s AND
TO GET A SENSE OF YOUR OWN
IT'S, YOU KNOW, IF YOU EVER WANT
PERSONAL FAILURE, YOU KNOW?
TO GET A SENSE OF YOUR OWN
LOOK AT YOURSELF TRYING TO GET
PERSONAL FAILURE, YOU KNOW?
ACROSS A POINT THAT NOBODY IS
LOOK AT YOURSELF TRYING TO GET
LISTENING TO AND THE SITUATION
ACROSS A POINT THAT NOBODY IS
GETS WORSE AND WORSE.
LISTENING TO AND THE SITUATION
>> Reporter: IN THE FILM, REICH
GETS WORSE AND WORSE.
REVEALS A VERY PERSONAL REASON
>> Reporter: IN THE FILM, REICH
FOR HIS PERSISTENCE.
REVEALS A VERY PERSONAL REASON
>>WHEN  I WAS A KID THE BIGGER
FOR HIS PERSISTENCE.
BOYS WOULD PICK ON ME.
>>WHEN  I WAS A KID THE BIGGER
THAT WAS WHAT YOU DID.
BOYS WOULD PICK ON ME.
THAT'S WHAT IS DONE.
THAT WAS WHAT YOU DID.
SO I GOT AN IDEA THAT I WOULD
THAT'S WHAT IS DONE.
MAKE ALLIANCES WITH OLDER BOYS.
SO I GOT AN IDEA THAT I WOULD
JUST ONE OR TWO WHO COULD BE MY
MAKE ALLIANCES WITH OLDER BOYS.
PROTECTORS.
JUST ONE OR TWO WHO COULD BE MY
THE SUMMER WHEN I WAS ABOUT TEN,
PROTECTORS.
ONE OF THE OLDER BOYS WHO I
THE SUMMER WHEN I WAS ABOUT TEN,
DEPENDED ON TO BE A PROTECTOR
ONE OF THE OLDER BOYS WHO I
WAS MICHAEL SCHWERNER.
DEPENDED ON TO BE A PROTECTOR
THE SUMMER OF '64, I LEARNED
WAS MICHAEL SCHWERNER.
THAT MICKEY HAD BEEN IN
THE SUMMER OF '64, I LEARNED
MISSISSIPPI REGISTERING VOTERS
THAT MICKEY HAD BEEN IN
AND HE AND TWO OTHER PEOPLE WHO
MISSISSIPPI REGISTERING VOTERS
HAD BEEN WITH HIM REGISTERING
AND HE AND TWO OTHER PEOPLE WHO
VOTERS WERE TORTURED AND
HAD BEEN WITH HIM REGISTERING
MURDERED.
VOTERS WERE TORTURED AND
SHIFTED IN MY BRAIN.
MURDERED.
I THOUGHT, "I HAVE TO MAKE SURE
SHIFTED IN MY BRAIN.
IN WHATEVER WAY I CAN THAT
I THOUGHT, "I HAVE TO MAKE SURE
PEOPLE HAVE SOME DEGREE OF
IN WHATEVER WAY I CAN THAT
PROTECTION, THAT THE VULNERABLE
PEOPLE HAVE SOME DEGREE OF
PEOPLE OF WHICH THERE ARE MANY
PROTECTION, THAT THE VULNERABLE
DON'T SUFFER THE ECONOMIC
PEOPLE OF WHICH THERE ARE MANY
BULLIES."
DON'T SUFFER THE ECONOMIC
WE'RE THE RICHEST ECONOMY IN THE
BULLIES."
HISTORY OTHE F WORLD.
WE'RE THE RICHEST ECONOMY IN THE
FOR THE MAJORITY OF AMERICANS
HISTORY OTHE F WORLD.
NOT TO GET THE BENEFITS OF THIS
FOR THE MAJORITY OF AMERICANS
EXTRAORDINARILY PROSPEROUS
NOT TO GET THE BENEFITS OF THIS
ECONOMY, YOU KNOW THERE'S
EXTRAORDINARILY PROSPEROUS
SOMETHING FUNDAMENTALLY WRONG.
ECONOMY, YOU KNOW THERE'S
>> Reporter: THE EARLY 1980s WAS
SOMETHING FUNDAMENTALLY WRONG.
WHEN THE GROWING DIVIDE FIRST
>> Reporter: THE EARLY 1980s WAS
EMERGED-- THE EARLY SIGNS OF THE
WHEN THE GROWING DIVIDE FIRST
RICH GETTING RICHER WHILE ALMOST
EMERGED-- THE EARLY SIGNS OF THE
EVERYONE ELSE WAS FALLING
RICH GETTING RICHER WHILE ALMOST
BEHIND.
EVERYONE ELSE WAS FALLING
IS IT NOT PLAUSIBLE THAT WHAT'S
BEHIND.
HAPPENING IS THAT WE'RE LIVING
IS IT NOT PLAUSIBLE THAT WHAT'S
IN A MORE AND MORE SKILLS-
HAPPENING IS THAT WE'RE LIVING
INTENSIVE WORLD ECONOMY AND THAT
IN A MORE AND MORE SKILLS-
SOME PEOPLE, PERHAPS BECAUSE OF
INTENSIVE WORLD ECONOMY AND THAT
WHO THEIR PARENTS MARRIED AND
SOME PEOPLE, PERHAPS BECAUSE OF
THEIR NATURAL ENDOWMENTS AND
WHO THEIR PARENTS MARRIED AND
ERTACINLY THEIR CULTURAL
THEIR NATURAL ENDOWMENTS AND
ENVIRONMENT JUST HAVE MORE OF
ERTACINLY THEIR CULTURAL
THOSE SKILLS THAN EVERYBODY ELSE
ENVIRONMENT JUST HAVE MORE OF
AND THEY'RE GETTING REWARDED FOR
THOSE SKILLS THAN EVERYBODY ELSE
IT?
AND THEY'RE GETTING REWARDED FOR
>> WELL, UNDOUBTEDLY THAT'S PART
IT?
OF THE STORY BUT WE ALSO KNOW
>> WELL, UNDOUBTEDLY THAT'S PART
THAT WE HAVE LESS UPWARD
OF THE STORY BUT WE ALSO KNOW
MOBILITY THAN ANY OTHER ADVANCED
THAT WE HAVE LESS UPWARD
COUNTRY.
MOBILITY THAN ANY OTHER ADVANCED
>> Reporter: SO YOU MEAN NATURAL
COUNTRY.
ENDOWMENTS CAN'T EXPLAIN IT ALL.
>> Reporter: SO YOU MEAN NATURAL
>> NATURAL ENDOWMENTS DON'T
ENDOWMENTS CAN'T EXPLAIN IT ALL.
EXPLAIN IT ALL, CAN'T EXPLAIN IT
>> NATURAL ENDOWMENTS DON'T
ALL.
EXPLAIN IT ALL, CAN'T EXPLAIN IT
WE HAVE A SCHOOL SYSTEM THAT IS
ALL.
NOT VERY GOOD, PARTICULARLY FOR
WE HAVE A SCHOOL SYSTEM THAT IS
POORER AND WORKING CLASS AND
NOT VERY GOOD, PARTICULARLY FOR
MIDDLE CLASS KIDS.
POORER AND WORKING CLASS AND
WE ALSO KNOW THAT IT'S GETTING
MIDDLE CLASS KIDS.
HARDER AND HARDER TO FINANCE
WE ALSO KNOW THAT IT'S GETTING
HIGHER EDUCATION.
HARDER AND HARDER TO FINANCE
I THINK IT'S WRONG TO BE AN
HIGHER EDUCATION.
ECONOMIC DETERMINIST, I THINK
I THINK IT'S WRONG TO BE AN
IT'S WRONG TO SIMPLY SAY WELL
ECONOMIC DETERMINIST, I THINK
INEVITABLY IF YOU'RE POOR,
IT'S WRONG TO SIMPLY SAY WELL
YOU'RE GOING TO GET A LOUSY
INEVITABLY IF YOU'RE POOR,
EDUCATION, IF YOU'RE LOWER
YOU'RE GOING TO GET A LOUSY
MIDDLE CLASS, THE CARDS ARE
EDUCATION, IF YOU'RE LOWER
GOING TO BE STACKED AGAINST YOU,
MIDDLE CLASS, THE CARDS ARE
YOU'LL PROBABLY NEVER GET
GOING TO BE STACKED AGAINST YOU,
ANYWHERE.
YOU'LL PROBABLY NEVER GET
>> Reporter: BUT A LOT OF PEOPLE
ANYWHERE.
THINK, PARTICULARLY THE PEOPLE
>> Reporter: BUT A LOT OF PEOPLE
WHO HAVE BENEFITED, THAT THEY'RE
THINK, PARTICULARLY THE PEOPLE
ENTITLED TO THE FRUITS OF THEIR
WHO HAVE BENEFITED, THAT THEY'RE
ABILITIES, THEIR LABOR.
ENTITLED TO THE FRUITS OF THEIR
>> WHAT DO YOU EXPECT THEM TO
ABILITIES, THEIR LABOR.
SAY?
>> WHAT DO YOU EXPECT THEM TO
SOME OF THEM LIKE WARREN BUFFET
SAY?
AND NICK HANAUER, WHO'S IN THE
SOME OF THEM LIKE WARREN BUFFET
FILM, SAY, I SHOULD BE TAXED
AND NICK HANAUER, WHO'S IN THE
MORE, THIS IS CRAZY.
FILM, SAY, I SHOULD BE TAXED
BUT MANY OF THEM SAY, IF I'M
MORE, THIS IS CRAZY.
WEALTHY, I MUST BE REALLY SMART.
>> I WANT A SHOT FOR PEOPLE LIKE
ME TO GROW UP AND DO SOMETHING
WITH THEMSELVES.
>> Reporter: LIKE REICH,
DIRECTOR JACOB KORNBLUTH HAS
PERSONAL REASONS FOR HIS FOCUS
ON INEQUALITY.
>> I GREW UP POOR.
MY MOTHER RAISED A FAMILY OF
FOUR ON BETWEEN $9,000 AND
$15,000 A YEAR.
I'M 40 YEARS OLD, WHAT I'VE SEEN
MY WHOLE FE ILIS WIDENING INCOME
INEQUALITY.
BUT SO WHAT, SO THE ECONOMY'S
GROWN SO UNEQUAL, WHAT, WHY
SHOULD WE CARE, WHY SHOULD WE
CARE, THAT'S THE SUBJECT OF THE
MOVIE, THAT'S WHY WE MADE IT.
>> WHO IS ACTUALLY LOOKING OUT
FOR THE AMERICAN WORKER?
THE ANSWER IS, NOBODY.
WE ARE LOSING EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
IN AMERICA.
ANY OF YOU WHO FEELS CYNICAL,
JUST CONSIDER WHERE WE HAVE
BEEN.
>> Reporter: WHY DO YOU CARE SO
MUCH?
>> BECAUSE EQUAL OPPORTUNITY IS
WHAT THIS COUNTRY IS BUILT ON.
SO MANY PEOPLE FEEL LIKE THE
GAME IS RIGGED, PAUL, THAT
THEY'RE... THEY'RE SORT OF
GIVING UP ON POLITICS.
YOU KNOW THEY... THEY...
>> Reporter: OH, FOR SURE.
>> THEY'RE TOTALLY CYNICAL.
WELL IF YOU GIVE UP ON POLITICS,
YOU'RE GIVING UP ON DEMOCRACY
AND IF YOU GIVE UP ON DEMOCRACY
YOU'RE BASICALLY SAYING TO THE
MONEYED INTERESTS, THE POWERFUL
PEOPLE AND INSTITUTIONS AND
SOCIETY, TAKE IT ALL.
THAT'S A SELF-FULFILLING
PROPHECY, THEN WE GIVE UP, THEN
WE ARE 100% PLUTOCRACY.
>> Reporter: ROBERT REICH,
THANKS VERY MUCH.
>> THANKS, PAUL.
>> Woodruff: AND TO THE ANALYSIS
OF SHIELDS AND BROOKS,
SYNDICATED COLUMNIST MARK
SHIELDS AND "NEW YORK TIMES"
COLUMNIST DAVID BROOKS.
GENTLEMEN, TOGETHER AGAIN.
SO THE GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN, THE
DEBATE, THE ARGUMENT OVER THE
DEBT CEILING, MARK, HELP US
UNDERSTAND WHERE WE ARE WITHAUL
THIS.
WE'RE STRUGGLING TO UNDERSTAND
IT.
>> WELL, SUBSTANTIVELY AND
POLITICALLY, POLITICALLY, JUDY,
THIS HAS BEEN AN UNEQUIVOCAL
CATASTROPHE FOR THE
REPUBLICANS.
THE REPUBLICAN PARTY IS PAGAN
ENORMOUS PRICE.
THEY'VE GOT THE POLITICAL
EQUIVALENT OF HALITOSIS RIGHT
NOW.
VOTERS HAVE TURNED AGAINST
THEM.
THEY HAVE THE LOWEST RATING IN
THE HISTORY OF THE WALL STREET
JOURNAL/NBC POLL.
IT'S BANE DISASTER POOP PEOPLE
BLAME THEM FOR IT.
BARACK OBAMA NOW GETS LESS BLAME
FOR THIS THAN BILL CLT DID IN
THE 1995-1996 CLOSING WHICH WAS
REGARDED IN THE RETROSPECK TO AN
ENORMOUS BLOW TO THE REPUBLICANS
THEN AND AN ADVANTAGE FOR CLT
RUNNING FOR REELECTION.
THERE'S NO QUESTION, THAT PART
OF IT IS IS RESOLVED.
WHEREVER WE GO FORWARD FROM
HERE, IT'S ON THE CARCASS OF THE
REPUBLICANS.
THE REPUBLICANS ARE REALLY IN
THE POSITION NOW OF ESSENTIALLY
SUING FOR PEACE.
>> Woodruff: WHEREVER WE ARE,
WHERE ARE WE GDAVID?
>> I THINK WE'RE GOING TOWARDS A
DEAL, THE GOVERNMENT WILL
REOPEN.
IT WILL NOT BE A COMPLETE
SURRENDER BY THE REPUBLICANS BUT
PRETTY CLOSE.
THEY MAY GET THE MEDICAL DEVICE
TAX REMOVED FROM OBAMACARE.
THAT'S NOT EXACTLY WHAT THIS WAS
FOUGHT OVER.
I SUSPECT THAT I EVER GOING TO
EXTEND-- WE'LL HAVE BUDGET
NEGOTIATIONS IN THE FUTURE.
I DON'T KNOW HOW LONG THEY'LL
EXTEND THE SPENDING.
THE POLLS ARE JUST, AS MARK
SAID, CATASTROPHIC.
I'M NOT SURE HOW LONG-STANDING
THEY WILL BE.
THE PROBLEM WITH THE REPUBLICANS
IT THEY'RE TECTONIC.
THEY'RE CATERING TO 28% OF THE
COUNTRY, AND THEY'RE JUST
ESTRANGED FROM THE OTHER-- HELP
ME HERE-- 62%.
72.
MY MATH GIRLS, GREAT.
MY MATH SKILLS GREAT.
THEY'RE IN AN INSULAR RUT.
AND THE QUESTION FOR ME GOING
FORWARD WITH THE REPUBLICANS,
TAKE ON THE SUICIDE CAUCUS.
IF YOU CAN'T TAKE ON TED CRUZ,
THEN YOU DON'T SURVIVE AS A
PARTY SO THEY HAVE TO MAKE
THAT'S DECISION.
SHORT TERM I THINK THE
GOVERNMENT WILL REOPEN SOON.
>> Woodruff: IT'S THAT BLEAK,
MARK, FOR THE REPUBLICAN PARTY?
>> JUDY IT'S NOT A GREAT LIFT
FOR THE DEMOCRATS.
THE DEMOCRATS OBVIOUSLY ARE
PROFITING FROM THE REPUBLICANS'
PROBLEMS BUT IT ISN'T LIKE THE
DEMOCRATS HAVE SOARED.
IT'S A LITTLE BIT LIKE THE
RODNEY DANGERFIELD QUESTION, HOW
IS YOUR WIFE COMPARED TO WHAT.
COMPARED TO REPUBLICANS THE
DEMOCRATS LOOK LIKE GEORGE
WASHINGTON, ABRAHAM LINCOLN AND
F.D.R. ROLLED INTO ONE.
THE PRESIDENT'S NUMBERS HAVE NOT
GONE UP DRAMATICALLY.
I AGREE WITH DAVID, IT'S A-- TOM
DAVIS WAS ON THE BROADCAST LAST
NIGHT PUP INTERVIEWED HIM, AND
HE MADE THE POINT 80% OF
REPUBLICANS GO HOME TO DISTRICTS
AND ALL THEY TALK TO ARE
REPUBLICANS.
IF YOU ONLY TALK TO PEOPLE WHO
AGREE WITH YOU, IT'S PRETTY EASY
TO COME TO THE CONCLUSION THAT,
BOY, YOU'RE IN THE MAJORITY.
I JUST THINK THIS IS-- IT'S NOT
SIMPLY A REPUBLICAN PROBLEM BUT
I THINK RIGHT NOW IT'S A
REPUBLICAN PROBLEM WHEN THEY'RE
CAUGHT IN THIS SITUATION.
THE REAL COST BEYOND THE
POLITICAL ADVANTAGE RIGHT NOW IS
THE EROSION AND HEMORRHAGING OF
CONFIDENCE IN GOVERNMENT.
AND OUR ABILITY TO ACT
COLLECTIVELY.
WE DON'T HAVE THE OPTIMISM OR
THE CONFIDENCE RIGHT NOW TO
BUILD AN ERIE CANAL, LET ALONE A
FEDERAL HIGHWAY SYSTEM OR
CONTINENTAL RAILROAD.
I MEAN I JUST-- I THINK THAT IN
THE LONG RUN IS A TERRIBLE PRICE
WE'RE PAYING.
>> I THINK THAT'S A PRICE FOR
THE COUNTRY.
IT'S ALSO, FRANKLY, A PRICE FOR
LIBERALS AND DEMOCRATS WHO IS
THE PARTY OF GOVERNMENT.
IF YOU HAD TOLD ME A COUPLE OF
YEARS AGO WE'D HAVE A FINANCIAL
CRISIS CAUSED BY WALL STREET, AN
OIL SPILL CAUSED BY AN OIL
COMPANY, STAGNANT WAGES, THE
THINGS BOB REICH WAS TALKING
ABOUT.
YOU WOULD THINK WE'D BE IN A BIG
LIBERAL ERA.
WHY AREN'T WE?
BECAUSE PEOPLE DON'T HAVE FAITH
IN THE INSTRUMENT.
THEY DON'T HAVE FAITH IN
GOVERNMENT.
AND A LOT OF PERVERSE THINGS
HAVE LED TO THAT EROSION OF
FAITH.
SOME OF IT EVENTS LIKE THIS.
I THINK "60 MINUTES--" WITHOUT
MEANING TO-- EVERY WEEK IF YOU
DO SCANDALS IN GOVERNMENT, UNG A
LOT OF SCANDALS THERE IN
WASHINGTON.
AND SO THERE'S BEEN AN EROSION
OF SUPPORT OVER A GENERATION.
>> Woodruff: BUT YOU'RE NOT
SAYING THAT'S JUST DUE TO WHAT
THE REPUBLICANS ARE DOING?
OR ARE YOU?
IS THAT WHAT YOU'RE SAYING, THE
REPUBLICANS, ONE PARTY HAS
CALLED CONFIDENCE IN GOVERNMENT
TO DROP?
>> I THINK IT'S FAIR TO SAY THAT
THE REPUBLICAN PARTY RIGHT NOW
IS DOMINATED BY ANTIGOVERNMENT
SPIRIT.
AND AN ANTIGOVERNMENT BELIEF.
AND DAVID'S RIGHT.
THE DEMOCRATS BELIEVE
HISTORICALLY AND PRESENTLY THAT
GOVERNMENT IS AN INSTRUMENT OF
SOCIAL JUSTICE AND OF ECONOMIC
PROGRESS.
AND ONE OF THE PROBLEMS-- AND
DAVID MADE GOOD POINT-- IS THAT
WE HAVE NOT CELEBRATED THE
SUCCESSES.
WE HAVE 215 LAND GRANT COLLEGES
AND UNIVERSITIES IN THIS
COUNTRY.
WE'RE THE ENVY OF THE WORLD.
WHAT A PUBLIC EDUCATIONAL
SYSTEM.
WE NEVER CELEBRATE IT.
WE DON'T CELEBRATE THE FACT THAT
WE'VE TAKEN 98% OF THE LEAD OUT
OF THE AIR.
I THINK DEMOCRATS HAVE FAILED TO
DO IT.
I THINK WHEN YOU JUST COME
BEFORE PEOPLE AND TALK ABOUT A
LITANY OF WHAT'S WRONG, THAT WE
ARE A MORE JUST, MORE HUMANE AND
COMPASSION AT-- BOB REICH MADE
VERY GOOD POINTS D VANEILED
POINT, BUT WE HAVE HAD ENORMOUS
PROGRESS.
THAT'S HOW YOU BUILD CONFIDENCE
ABOUT DOING SOMETHING IN THE
FUTURE.
>> IT'S A GENERATIONAL THING.
THE TRUST BEGIN TO GO DOWN LATE
60s, EARLY 70s, VIETNAM AND
WATERGATE PLAYED A BIG ROLE.
BUT THE EXPANSION OF GOVERNMENT
INTO ALL AREAS OF LIFE LIKE THE
WAR ON POVERTY AND OTHER
THINGS.
I THINK THAT PROBABLY HURT.
IT'S OVER HELP-PROMISE AND IT'S
A CASE WE HAVE BECOME A LESS
TRUSTING SOCIETY.
IF YOU ASK AMERICANS DO YOU
TRUST THE PEOPLE AROUND YOU, FOR
MOST OF THE 20th CENTURY,
"YEAH, I TRUST MY NEIGHBOR.
I TRUST THE PEOPLE AROUND ME."
THE MAJORITY NOW, NO, I DON'T
TRUST PEOPLE AROUND ME.
IT'S HURT ALL INSTITUTIONS,
MEDIA, GOVERNMENT, LAW.
>> Woodruff: WHAT DOES THAT
MEAN FOR THE FUTURE?
ELECTIONS, THE CONGRESS WILL GO
ON.
THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH WILL GO
IT WILL CONTINUE TO-- WHAT DOES
ON.
IT MEAN DUNE THE ROAD AS THE
IT WILL CONTINUE TO-- WHAT DOES
GOVERNMENT TRIES TO SOLVE
IT MEAN DUNE THE ROAD AS THE
PROBLEMS, THE COUNTRY TRIES TO
GOVERNMENT TRIES TO SOLVE
SOLVE PROBLEMS.
PROBLEMS, THE COUNTRY TRIES TO
>> COSTS ARE ENORMOUS.
SOLVE PROBLEMS.
I'D SAY IF WE HAD A
>> COSTS ARE ENORMOUS.
PARLIAMENTARY SYSTEM RIGHT NOW
I'D SAY IF WE HAD A
WE'D BE LOOKING AT A DEMOCRATIC
PARLIAMENTARY SYSTEM RIGHT NOW
LANDSLIDE BECAUSE THE DEMOCRATS
WE'D BE LOOKING AT A DEMOCRATIC
HAVE EMERGED IN THE "WALL STREET
LANDSLIDE BECAUSE THE DEMOCRATS
JOURNAL"/NBC POLL AS THE MORE
HAVE EMERGED IN THE "WALL STREET
POPULAR PARTY.
JOURNAL"/NBC POLL AS THE MORE
AND I THINK THAT-- IT'S GOING TO
POPULAR PARTY.
TAKE THE REPUBLICANS-- IT'S
AND I THINK THAT-- IT'S GOING TO
GOING TO TAKE A REAL COLD
TAKE THE REPUBLICANS-- IT'S
SHOWER.
GOING TO TAKE A REAL COLD
THEY'VE HAD A STONE WALL OF
SHOWER.
REALITY THEY'VE BUN RUNINTO.
THEY'VE HAD A STONE WALL OF
THE IDEA, JUDY, THAT A SERIOUS
REALITY THEY'VE BUN RUNINTO.
POLITICAL PARTY-- JOHN BOEHNER
THE IDEA, JUDY, THAT A SERIOUS
IS SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE-- WOULD
POLITICAL PARTY-- JOHN BOEHNER
PROPOSE REPEALING A STATUTE THAT
IS SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE-- WOULD
WAS RATIFIED BY THE DEFINITION
PROPOSE REPEALING A STATUTE THAT
OF MITT ROMNEY AND PAUL RYAN IN
WAS RATIFIED BY THE DEFINITION
THE LAST ELECTION HAVING
OF MITT ROMNEY AND PAUL RYAN IN
OPINION-- OBAMACARE HAVING BEEN
THE LAST ELECTION HAVING
PASSED.
OPINION-- OBAMACARE HAVING BEEN
THEY SAID THE ELECTION WAS GOING
PASSED.
TO BE ABOUT OBAMACARE, BOTH OF
THEY SAID THE ELECTION WAS GOING
THEM DID, AND THE IDEA YOU COULD
TO BE ABOUT OBAMACARE, BOTH OF
REPEAL IT WITH ONE HOUSE CONTROL
THEM DID, AND THE IDEA YOU COULD
OF THE CONGRESS-- I MEAN, IT'S
REPEAL IT WITH ONE HOUSE CONTROL
BEYOND DELUSIONAL.
OF THE CONGRESS-- I MEAN, IT'S
>> Woodruff: I'VE TALKED TO
BEYOND DELUSIONAL.
MEMBERS OF THE TEA PARTY THIS
>> Woodruff: I'VE TALKED TO
WEEK THEY STILL BELIEVE THAT'S
MEMBERS OF THE TEA PARTY THIS
THE RIGHT THING TO DO, JUST
WEEK THEY STILL BELIEVE THAT'S
BECAUSE IT'S LAW DOESN'T MEAN
THE RIGHT THING TO DO, JUST
YOU CAN'T TAKE ANOTHER LOOK AT
BECAUSE IT'S LAW DOESN'T MEAN
IT.
YOU CAN'T TAKE ANOTHER LOOK AT
>> WELL, YOU CAN TAKE ANOTHER
IT.
LOOK, AND I MIGHT BE IN FAVOR OF
>> WELL, YOU CAN TAKE ANOTHER
TAKING ANOTHER LOOK, BUT YOU
LOOK, AND I MIGHT BE IN FAVOR OF
HAVE TO LOOK AT REALITY.
TAKING ANOTHER LOOK, BUT YOU
YOU HAVE TO KNOW WHAT COUNTRY
HAVE TO LOOK AT REALITY.
YOU'RE LIVING IN.
YOU HAVE TO KNOW WHAT COUNTRY
THERE WAS NEVER A PACT FOR TED
YOU'RE LIVING IN.
CRUZ TO BE SUCCESSFUL.
THERE WAS NEVER A PACT FOR TED
SO PART OF POLITICS IS HAVING
CRUZ TO BE SUCCESSFUL.
THE PASSION OF YOUR BELIEFS BUT
SO PART OF POLITICS IS HAVING
THE PRIEWBS OF THE REALITY, AND
THE PASSION OF YOUR BELIEFS BUT
HE MIGHT HAVE HAD THE PASSION OF
THE PRIEWBS OF THE REALITY, AND
HIS BELIEFS, BUT IT'S
HE MIGHT HAVE HAD THE PASSION OF
DEMAGOGUERY TO THINK YOU CAN
HIS BELIEFS, BUT IT'S
JUST DO THAT WITHOUT DOING THE
DEMAGOGUERY TO THINK YOU CAN
PRACTICALITY.
JUST DO THAT WITHOUT DOING THE
HE, TED CUZ, MIKE LEIGH, THEY
PRACTICALITY.
LED THE REPUBLICAN PARTY ON A
HE, TED CUZ, MIKE LEIGH, THEY
SUICIDE MISSION.
LED THE REPUBLICAN PARTY ON A
THE REPUBLICANS KNOW THAT.
SUICIDE MISSION.
THEY KNEW IT BEFOREHAND.
THE REPUBLICANS KNOW THAT.
>> Woodruff: WHY DID THEY GO
THEY KNEW IT BEFOREHAND.
ALONG WITH IT?
>> Woodruff: WHY DID THEY GO
>> THEY WERE ALL AFRAID OF THE
ALONG WITH IT?
PRIMARY CHALLENGE.
>> THEY WERE ALL AFRAID OF THE
I THINK MOST COULD BEAT THE
PRIMARY CHALLENGE.
PRIMARY CHALLENGE, AND THEY
I THINK MOST COULD BEAT THE
CHOSE TO RIDE IT AGAIN.
PRIMARY CHALLENGE, AND THEY
I INVESTIGATE BEEN TOLD THIS,
CHOSE TO RIDE IT AGAIN.
JOHN BOEHNER'S SPEAKERSHIP WAS
I INVESTIGATE BEEN TOLD THIS,
FRAGILE, BUT FOR HIM TO HAVE
JOHN BOEHNER'S SPEAKERSHIP WAS
FOUGHT THE FIGHT, I THINK HIS
FRAGILE, BUT FOR HIM TO HAVE
SPEAKERSHIP MIGHT BE MORE SECURE
FOUGHT THE FIGHT, I THINK HIS
BECAUSE HE CAN SAY TO THOSE
SPEAKERSHIP MIGHT BE MORE SECURE
PEOPLE --
BECAUSE HE CAN SAY TO THOSE
>> THE SPEAKER HELP ISN'T GOING
PEOPLE --
TO BE SECURE IF THE REPUBLICANS
>> THE SPEAKER HELP ISN'T GOING
LOSE THE HOUSE.
TO BE SECURE IF THE REPUBLICANS
>> YOU THINK THAT'S POSSIBLE.
LOSE THE HOUSE.
>> I DO?
>> YOU THINK THAT'S POSSIBLE.
>> I DON'T.
>> I DO?
>> Woodruff?
>> I DON'T.
THE NEXT ELECTION.
>> Woodruff?
>> I THINK THIS HAS THE POSSIBLE
THE NEXT ELECTION.
OF SCRAMBLING IT.
>> I THINK THIS HAS THE POSSIBLE
IF THE REPUBLICANS CONTINUE THE
OF SCRAMBLING IT.
WAY THEY ARE-- THIS IS-- IF THIS
IF THE REPUBLICANS CONTINUE THE
VOICE REMAINS DOMINANT THEY'LL
WAY THEY ARE-- THIS IS-- IF THIS
GO THROUGH 2016 EXACTLY WHAT
VOICE REMAINS DOMINANT THEY'LL
THEY WENT THROUGH IN 2012, WHICH
GO THROUGH 2016 EXACTLY WHAT
WAS MITT ROMNEY ESSENTIALLY
THEY WENT THROUGH IN 2012, WHICH
BEAT-- USED ANTI-IMMIGRATION TO
WAS MITT ROMNEY ESSENTIALLY
ISOLATE RICK PERRY AND NEWT
BEAT-- USED ANTI-IMMIGRATION TO
GINGRICH AND HIS PRINCIPAL
ISOLATE RICK PERRY AND NEWT
OPPONENTS AND MARRIED HIMSELF TO
GINGRICH AND HIS PRINCIPAL
A POLICY THAT WAS UNACCEPTABLE
OPPONENTS AND MARRIED HIMSELF TO
TO THE COUNTRY BUT NECESSARY AND
A POLICY THAT WAS UNACCEPTABLE
IMPERATIVE TO BE THE NOMINEE.
TO THE COUNTRY BUT NECESSARY AND
IF IT IS GOING TO BE THAT LITMUS
IMPERATIVE TO BE THE NOMINEE.
TEST AFTER LITMUS TEST, THEY'RE
IF IT IS GOING TO BE THAT LITMUS
GOING TO BE A MINORITY PARTY PUP
TEST AFTER LITMUS TEST, THEY'RE
CAN'T HOLD ON AS AN ISLAND IN
GOING TO BE A MINORITY PARTY PUP
CONGRESS AND CONTINUE TO LOSE
CAN'T HOLD ON AS AN ISLAND IN
NATIONAL ELECTIONS DECISIVELY.
CONGRESS AND CONTINUE TO LOSE
>> I AGREE WITH YOU ON THE
NATIONAL ELECTIONS DECISIVELY.
NATIONAL ELECTION FRONT.
>> I AGREE WITH YOU ON THE
THE DEMOGRAPHIC PROBLEMS ARE
NATIONAL ELECTION FRONT.
WELL NOPE.
THE DEMOGRAPHIC PROBLEMS ARE
I THINK IN THE MIDTERMS I THINK
WELL NOPE.
IT'S HARD FOR THE REPUBLICANS TO
I THINK IN THE MIDTERMS I THINK
LOSE THE HOUSE.
IT'S HARD FOR THE REPUBLICANS TO
THEY'RE ENTRENCHED IN THE
LOSE THE HOUSE.
DISTRICT.
THEY'RE ENTRENCHED IN THE
THIS IS FRANKLY NOT A BIG NEWS
DISTRICT.
EVENT TO PEOPLE.
THIS IS FRANKLY NOT A BIG NEWS
IT'S NOT A TRANSFORMATIONAL NEWS
EVENT TO PEOPLE.
EVENT.
IT'S NOT A TRANSFORMATIONAL NEWS
MOST PEOPLE DON'T NOTICE THE
EVENT.
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS SHUT
MOST PEOPLE DON'T NOTICE THE
DOWN.
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS SHUT
WE HAD NICE TRAFFIC IN
DOWN.
WASHINGTON LAST WEEK.
WE HAD NICE TRAFFIC IN
I LIKE IT.
WASHINGTON LAST WEEK.
SOME PEOPLE ARE SUFFERING,
I LIKE IT.
THAT'S TRUE.
SOME PEOPLE ARE SUFFERING,
BUT AS A NATIONAL TRANSFORMATIVE
THAT'S TRUE.
THING, THE WAY WATER GATE AND
BUT AS A NATIONAL TRANSFORMATIVE
VIETNAM WERE.
THING, THE WAY WATER GATE AND
>> I COULDN'T DISAGREE MORE.
VIETNAM WERE.
WE'RE TALKING JUDY ABOUT GOING
>> I COULDN'T DISAGREE MORE.
ON, PASSING THE DEBT CEILING AND
WE'RE TALKING JUDY ABOUT GOING
KEEPING GOVERNMENT CLOSED.
ON, PASSING THE DEBT CEILING AND
THAT COMES TO 9 MILLION
KEEPING GOVERNMENT CLOSED.
AMERICANS UNDER WOMEN'S AND
THAT COMES TO 9 MILLION
INFANT CHILD CARE WHO WILL BE
AMERICANS UNDER WOMEN'S AND
CUT OFF.
INFANT CHILD CARE WHO WILL BE
THAT'S NUTRITIONAL.
CUT OFF.
THAT'S POST-PARTUM.
THAT'S NUTRITIONAL.
THAT'S PREGNANCY.
THAT'S POST-PARTUM.
COUNSELING, AND ASSISTANCE FOR
THAT'S PREGNANCY.
ALL KINDS OF PEOPLE.
COUNSELING, AND ASSISTANCE FOR
THAT'S 66 QIX,000 KIDS IN HEAD
ALL KINDS OF PEOPLE.
START.
THAT'S 66 QIX,000 KIDS IN HEAD
>> Woodruff: THE WHITE HOUSE
START.
IS SAYING THEY WON'T GO ALONG.
>> Woodruff: THE WHITE HOUSE
>> TO BE FAIR I'M NOT SAYING I
IS SAYING THEY WON'T GO ALONG.
APPROVE.
>> TO BE FAIR I'M NOT SAYING I
THE POLLS SHOW 80% DON'T
APPROVE.
NOTICE.
THE POLLS SHOW 80% DON'T
>> PETER HART, SAID IF YOU WERE
NOTICE.
A DEMOCRATIC PARTISAN YOU'D LOOK
>> PETER HART, SAID IF YOU WERE
AT THIS POLL WITH GLEE.
A DEMOCRATIC PARTISAN YOU'D LOOK
BUT AS ANYBODY WHO BELIEVES IN
AT THIS POLL WITH GLEE.
DEMOCRACY, THIS IS AN ENORMOUSLY
BUT AS ANYBODY WHO BELIEVES IN
SERIOUS SURVEY, AND IT'S ONE OF
DEMOCRACY, THIS IS AN ENORMOUSLY
THOSE-- BENCH WATERMARKS IN
SERIOUS SURVEY, AND IT'S ONE OF
POLITICAL ATTITUDES AND PUBLIC
THOSE-- BENCH WATERMARKS IN
ATTITUDES.
POLITICAL ATTITUDES AND PUBLIC
I THINK WE MAY BE ON THE CUSP OF
ATTITUDES.
THAT.
I THINK WE MAY BE ON THE CUSP OF
I REALLY DO.
THAT.
>> Woodruff: UNDER A MINUTE--
I REALLY DO.
WHERE DOES THE BE PRESIDENT GO
>> Woodruff: UNDER A MINUTE--
FROM HERE.
WHERE DOES THE BE PRESIDENT GO
WHAT IS HIS STANDING COMING OUT
FROM HERE.
OF THIS?
WHAT IS HIS STANDING COMING OUT
>> I THINK HE NEED TO FIGURE
OF THIS?
OUT-- IF THIS IS A BIG DEFEAT
>> I THINK HE NEED TO FIGURE
FOR REPUBLICANS ARE, THEY
OUT-- IF THIS IS A BIG DEFEAT
WEAKENED ON IMMIGRATION?
FOR REPUBLICANS ARE, THEY
IS THE TEA PARTY WEAKENED?
WEAKENED ON IMMIGRATION?
DOES HE HAVE AN TUNE THERE OR IS
IS THE TEA PARTY WEAKENED?
THAT STILL PROBABLY NOT GOING TO
DOES HE HAVE AN TUNE THERE OR IS
HAPPEN.
THAT STILL PROBABLY NOT GOING TO
I WOULD BE LOOKING AT THE OTHER
HAPPEN.
PARTY TO STEE WHAT OPPORTUNITIES
I WOULD BE LOOKING AT THE OTHER
DO I NOW HAVE.
PARTY TO STEE WHAT OPPORTUNITIES
HE MAY HAVE MORE.
DO I NOW HAVE.
>> I THINK THE PRESIDENT IS VERY
HE MAY HAVE MORE.
MUCH IN A
>> I THINK THE PRESIDENT IS VERY
POSITION.
MUCH IN A
BUT HIS OWN NUMBERS DON'T BEGIN
POSITION.
TO APPROACH THOSE OF PRESIDENT
BUT HIS OWN NUMBERS DON'T BEGIN
CLINTON OR PRESIDENT REAGAN IN
TO APPROACH THOSE OF PRESIDENT
THEIR SECOND TERMS.
CLINTON OR PRESIDENT REAGAN IN
I MEAN, HE LOOKS AND WITHED
THEIR SECOND TERMS.
STOOD REALLY SEVERE WINDS,
I MEAN, HE LOOKS AND WITHED
WHEREAS THE REPUBLICANS
STOOD REALLY SEVERE WINDS,
HAVEN'T.
WHEREAS THE REPUBLICANS
BUT I THINK HE HAS TO AT THE
HAVEN'T.
SAME TIME HAVING PREVAILED IN
BUT I THINK HE HAS TO AT THE
THIS ENCOUNTER YOU CAN'T SAY WE
SAME TIME HAVING PREVAILED IN
CLOSED THE GOVERNMENT AND MADE
THIS ENCOUNTER YOU CAN'T SAY WE
PEOPLE SUFFER FOR THE REPEAL OF
CLOSED THE GOVERNMENT AND MADE
A MEDICAL DEVICE?
PEOPLE SUFFER FOR THE REPEAL OF
YOU CAN'T-- THAT CAN'T BE THE
A MEDICAL DEVICE?
ANSWER.
YOU CAN'T-- THAT CAN'T BE THE
AT THAT POINT, THERE'S GOING TO
ANSWER.
BE GREATER PUBLIC OUTRAGE.
AT THAT POINT, THERE'S GOING TO
>> Woodruff: MARK SHIELDS,
BE GREATER PUBLIC OUTRAGE.
DAVID BROOKS, THANK YOU,
>> Woodruff: MARK SHIELDS,
GENTLEMEN.
>> Woodruff: THEY'RE UNDER
THREAT BY WAR, THE ENVIRONMENT,
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND MUCH
MORE.
67 SITES IN 41 COUNTRIES AND
TERRITORIES ARE ON THE 2014
WORLD MONUMENTS WATCH RELEASED
THIS WEEK.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS THE STORY.
>> Brown: THE LIST INCLUDES
THE FAMOUS AND LITTLE-KNOWN
ANCIENT AND MODERN URBAN AND
REMOTE.
AMONG THEM THE WORLD RENOWNED
DESTINATION OF VENICE, OVERRUN
BY CRUISE SHIPS AND TOURISM, AND
MIMAR'S CAPITOL AS DEVELOPMENT
ENCROACHES ON A HISTORIC CITY
CENTER, WITH ITS VAST REAL
ESTATE OF TEMPLES AND COLONIAL
ARCHITECTURE.
IN THE U.S., SIX SITES WERE
SINGLED OUTNCLU IDING THE
GATEWAY ARCH IN SLAUS,
EXPERIENCING CORROSION
THREATENING THE SYMBOL OF
EXPANSION.
BONNIE BURNHAM..
WHAT IS THE CRITERIA THAT GETS
SOMETHING ON THIS LIST?
WHAT ARE YOU LOOKING AT?
>> WE'RE LOOKING AT SITES THAT
ARE ON THE CUSP OF GOING IN THE
WRONG DIRECTION, WHERE THEY'RE
FACING SOME KIND OF PHYSICAL
ISSUE, SOME KIND OF
DEVELOPMENT-RELATED THREAT,
SITES THAT HAVE BEEN THROUGH
CATASTROPHES, AND EVEN SITES
THAT ARE PREGNANT WITH
OPPORTUNITY, AND WE FEEL THAT BY
MAKING-- BRINGING MORE PUBLIC
ATTENTION, WE CAN CHANGE THE
SITUATION.
>> Brown: YOU HAVE DIFFERENT
EXAMPLES, DIFFERENT THEMES.
ONE OBVIOUS ONE WE COVER ON THIS
PROGRAM ALL THE TIME IS WAR,
NOTABLY TODAY, SYRIA.
TELL US-- GIVE US AN EXAMPLE OF
WHAT'S BEEN HAPPENING THERE TO
CULTURAL ARTIFACTS AND SITES.
>> --
>> WE PUT ALL OF SYRIA ON OUR
WATCH LIST USRE ARE SO
MANY WONDERFUL SITES IN THE
COUNTRY THAT ARE IN HARM'S WAY,
ESPECIALLY THE URBAN ONES IN THE
CITY WHERE THERE'S BEEN A LOT OF
FIGHTING.
BUT EVEN IN THE COUNTRYSIDE NOW,
THE PLACE IS SO DISRUPTED,
PEOPLE ARE LOOKING FOR PLACES
WHERE THEY CAN CAMP OUT IF
THEY'RE REFUGEES.
THEY'RE STAYING IN MONUMENTS
THAT HAVE NOT BEEN DISTURBED FOR
HUNDREDS OF YEARS.
THERE'S A LOT OF LOOTING GOING
ON.
AND IT'S JUST A SITUATION OF
GENERAL DISTURBANCE.
WE'RE CONCERNED ABOUT WHAT'S
HAPPENING NOW, BUT WE'RE ALSO
CONCERNED ABOUT THE FUTURE.
>> Brown: I MEAN, HOW MUCH CAN
HAPPEN WHILE THE VIOLENCE
CONTINUES?
>> CAN'T DO MUCH EXCEPT EXPRESS
CONCERN, BUT AS SOON AS IT'S
OVER, ASSUMING IT WILL BE OVER,
WE LIKE TO MAKE SURE WE GET IT
RIGHT WHEN THE TIME COMES.
>> Brown: ANOTHER VERY
DIFFERENT TYPE OF EXAMPLE I
MENTIONED IN OUR INTRODUCTION,
VENES, WHICH HAS THE OPPOSITE
PROBLEM FROM SYRIA, I GUESS TOO
MUCH ATTENTION, RIGHT, TOO MUCH
LOVE.
>> VENICE IS BEING LOVED TO
DEATH, AND WE'VE BEEN CONCERNED
ABOUT IT FOR A LONG TIME.
THAT HUGE ESCALATION IN THE
NUMBERS OF PEOPLE THAT ARE THERE
NOW, EVEN MORE IN A YEAR THAN--
FAR MORE THAN THE POPULATION OF
THE CITY.
AND THESE GIANT TOUR BOATS, NO
ONE REALLY KNOWS EXACTLY WHAT
KIND OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
THEY'RE HAVING.
>> Brown: THOSE ARE STUNNING
PHOTOS WHEN YOU SEE THE CRUISE
SHIP OVER THE WHOLE CITY,
OVERLOOKING THE CITY.
>> THEY'RE STAGGERING, AND THERE
ARE SO MANY OF THEM NOW, THERE'S
NEVER A MOMENT WHEN YOU'RE IN
THE THE MOST BEAUTIFUL CITY IN
THE WORLD WHEN THE BOATS ARE NOT
IN THE HARBOR.
>> Brown: THAT'S NOT A NEW
PROBLEM AND THE CITY GOVERNMENT
HAS KNOWN ABOUT THIS.
WHAT'S THE STATUS OVER THE
DEBATE WHETHER TO SOMEHOW
LIGHTEN THE LOAD ON THE CITY?
>> WE UNDERSTAND THE MAYOR OF
VENICE IS VERY INTERESTED IN
HAVING A DIALOGUE, AND HE'S
INTERESTING IN EXPRESSION OF
CONCERN FROM OUTSIDE.
HE'S TURNING TO THE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY AND
SAYING HELP ME TO BRING THIS
INTO BBS BECAUSE IT'S NOT HIS
GIGZ DISIGZ ALONE.
THERE ARE A WHOLE BUNCH OF
GOVERNMENT AGENCIES THAT HAVE IN
VOICE BECAUSE IT'S ECONOMICALLY
BENEFICIAL TO THE CITY.
AND AT THE SAME TIME, YOU REALLY
HAVE TO THINK ABOUT THE IMPACT.
>> Brown: SPEAKING OF
ECONOMICS, ANOTHER AREA ON YOUR
LIST OF MANY SITES IS WHAT
HAPPENS WHEN THERE'S ECONOMIC
DWERNTLE WHETHER THERE'S A
RECOGNITION OF THE CULTURAL HER
CADGE.
AND ONE EXAMPLE IS MIMAR.
IT'S A COUNTRY OPENING UP IN A
WAY.
IT'S A POSITIVE DEVELOPMENT, AND
YET, YOU'RE CITING THE POTENTIAL
FOR SOME PROBLEMS.
>> THAT'S IT IT.
IT'S A VERY DYNAMIC
ENVIRONMENT.
THERE ARE MANY, MANY PEOPLE
INTERESTED IN INVESTING THERE.
BUSINESSES CAN'T FIEND PLACES TO
HAVE THEIR OFFICES, AND AT THE
SAME TIME, THE GOVERNMENT WITH
ALL THAT IT HAS TO DO TO
STRUGGLE TO GET ON ITS FEET, HAS
NOT REALLY CONFRONTED THE
QUESTION OF WHAT WILL HAPPEN TO
THIS BEAUTIFUL COLONIAL CITY,
AND IN FACT THEY'VE MOVED THE
GOVERNMENT AGENCIES OUT OF THE
CITY TO A NEW CAPITAL, LEAVING A
LOT OF VERY IMPORTANT MONUMENTAL
BUILDINGS TO AN UNCERTAIN
FUTURE.
>> Brown: LET'S TAKE ONE
AMERICAN EXAMPLE, THE ONE I
CITEED I CITEED IN THE
INTRODUCTION, THE ARCH IN ST.
LOUIS.
I THINK A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE
GOING TO BE SURPRISED, AS I WAS,
THAT IT WOULD BE ON THE LIST.
IT'S CORROSION?
>> IT IS CORROSION.
AND I GUESS THAT THE
OVER-ARCHING THEME IS VIGILANCE,
AND KNOWs WHAT'S HAPPENING IN
YOUR COMMUNITY OF THE THINGS YOU
TREASURE AND IN THIS CASE IT'S
THE NATIONAL PARK SERVICE FACING
A CONUNDRUM.
MANY OF THESE GREAT MODERNUILT N
EXPERIMENTAL WAYS, AND WE DON'T
HAVE STANDARD PROCEDURES FOR HOW
TO ADDRESS PROBLEMS OF THIS
KIND.
>> Brown: THAT LEADS TO MY
LAST QUESTION.
WHAT HAPPENS NEXT?
YOU CREATE THIS LIST.
WHAT HAPPENS TO THESE MONUMENTS
AND SITES ONCE THEY'RE ON IT.
WHAT DO YOU HOPE FOR?
>> EACH AND EVERY ONE OF THEM
HAS A STRATEGY.
IN SOME CASE THEY'RE LOOKING
FAIR HIGHER LEVEL OF
RECOGNITION, IN MIRAMAR, WHERE
THE LOCAL HERITAGE ORGANIZATION
CREATED POLICIES BUT THE
GOVERNMENT HAS ADOPTED THEM YET,
AND THAT'S REALLY THEIR MAIN BE
OBJECTIVE.
IN OTHER CASES IT IS OTHER KIND
OF ADVOCACY, AS WITH VENICE.
WE WANT THEM TON PEOPLE AROUND
THE WORLD CARE, AND IN SOME
INSTANCES THEY REALLY NEED MONEY
AND TECHNICAL SUPPORT AND WE DO
WHAT WE CAN TO PROVIDE THAT.
>> Brown: WE'LL CONTINUE THIS
CONVERSATION ON LINE AND STATE
SOME OTHER EXAMPLES.
>> THANK YOU, VERY NICE
OPPORTUNITY.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
HOUSE AND SENATE REPUBLICANS
BARGAINED SEPARATELY WITH
PRESIDENT OBAMA ON WAYS TO RAISE
THE DEBT CEILING AND END THE
SHUTDOWN, BUT THERE WAS NO
AGREEMENT YET.
AND THE NOBEL PEACE PRIZE WENT
TO THE ORGANIZATION FOR THE
PROHIBITION OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS-
- THE AGENCY THAT'S WORKING TO
DESTROY SYRIA'S CHEMICAL
ARSENAL.
BEFORE WE GO, WE SHARE A
QUESTION POSED TO MALALA
YOUSAFZAI BY ONE OF OUR STUDENT
REPORTING LABS REPORTERS ABOUT
WHAT'S NEXT FOR THE EDUCATION
ACTIVIST.
>> MY QUESTION FOR MALALULAA,
YOU'RE 16 YEARS OLD.
ONLY FOUR YEARS OLDER THAN ME,
AND YET YOU HAVE ACCOMPLISHED SO
MUCH.
SO WHAT ARE YOUR PLANS FOR THE
FUTURE?
>> THANK YOU, RENE.
IT WAS SUCH A GREAT QUESTION,
AND I THINK I HAVE MADE PLANS
FOR MY FUTURE FROM NOW ON, AND I
THINK WE MUST START WORKING AND
WE SET UP THE MALALA FOUNDATION,
AND WE WILL EDUCATE GIRLS, AND
DOING WORK BUILDING SCHOOLS,
TEACHERS, TRAINING, TRYING TO
MOTIVATE THE PARENTS AND
CHILDREN TO SEND THEIR CHILDREN
TO SCHOOL AND WE WANT TO
RECOGNIZE THOSE GIRLS FIGHTING
FOR THEIR RIGHTS.
AND IN THE FUTURE, WHEN I GROW
OLDER, MUCH OLDER, I WANT TO DO
POLITICS AND I WANT TO SERVE MY
COUNTRY THROUGH PITICOLS AND I
WANT TO HELP MY PEOPLE AND I
WANT TO HELP IN EDUCATION.
>> Woodruff: STUDENTS FROM
AROUND THE COUNTRY ALSO RECORDED
MESSAGES FOR MALALA.
YOU CAN FIND THEM ALL ON THE
RUNDOWN.
AND A REMINDER ABOUT
SOME UPCOMING PROGRAMS FROM
OUR PBS COLLEAGUES.
GWEN IS PREPARING FOR
"WASHINGTON WEEK", WHICH AIRS
LATER THIS EVENING.
HERE'S A PREVIEW:
>> LOTS OF NEWS DEVELOPMENTS TO
DISCUSS TONIGHT TONIGHT.
AS THE GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN IS
POISED TO ENTER ITS THIRD WEEK,
THE SUPREME COURT RETURNS, AND A
FED CHAIR STEPS ON DECK.
WE'LL HAVE THOSE STORIES AND
MORE LATER TONIGHT ON
"WASHINGTON WEEK."
JUDY.
>> Woodruff: TOMORROW'S EDITION
OF "PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND"
INCLUDES A REPORT BY WILLIAM
BRANGHAM ON UIGHURS, THE ETHNIC
MUSLIM GROUP PERSECUTED IN
CHINA, CAUGHT UP IN THE WAR IN
AFGHANISTAN, SENT TO GUANTANAMO
AND NOW DISPLACED AROUND THE
WORLD.
HERE'S AN EXCERPT.
THEN, RIGHT HERE ON MONDAY, THE
NOBEL PRIZE IN ECONOMICS AND A
REPORT ON EDUCATION IN PAKISTAN.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
HAVE A NICE WEEKEND.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.